Our rights declaration is the first of this millennium.
This applies both to Latvia and to the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and the present government the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
Must also apply, the European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
The political vision remains the same.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process within the meaning of the excellent speech by the President of the Prodi Commission.
The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language which it has been used within the European Union.
This task will not be easy, if we look at the lack of goodwill of the Turkish Cypriot side and Turkey.
We must not interfere in these achievements we reached with so many efforts.
I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to the natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
In my own country, in order to have a scatter-gun need a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo of my garden.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions uses and consumption on mineral oils does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
The money must be spent on the future of a more realistic way to the objectives and more effective, and, of course, must be guaranteed better than the funds be used for the purposes for which have been disbursed by the budgetary authority.
I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote that will, but the truth is that we must verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
With an average of three hours a day, it is the most important human activity after the dream and for adults, after the work.
Paciotti, and I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is meant to happen with the resources for the withdrawal of mines.
Madam President, the Europeans would be without doubt very inspired if terms to the ball flight that we launched here the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
When it appears that Milosevic has fled and the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies only be delayed a few days' time.
On the other hand, the method used is more debatable.
On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain impotence as a result of certain merger decisions, particularly relating to cases where they have had to go to the Commission's decision before the Court of First Instance.
The Commission has followed acting firm and in particular against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
I would remind the honourable Member that the vote will take place later, at 12.30 noon.
Also, when the candidate countries accede, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner deputy or main.
On the one hand, the decision of the head of the Israeli Government to freeze the peace negotiations by the violence in the region and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of national unity with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
The debate is closed.
In the absence of this fundamental reference, in the best we understand each other, and at worst, we slaughtered each other.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report by the European University Institute in Florence.
Unfortunately, the ultimate objective of a European constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
These are two often recurrent issues in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between the two branches of the budgetary authority.
Despite the fact that, as a member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this committee and despite the great respect to the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I must insist on two amendments that our committee has tabled before the plenary and which are still important although the amounts have been reduced.
The political messages in this year's budget are - as Commissioner Schreyer has already said - many, the restructuring of the agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of the structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
And I say so clear and unequivocal: Kostunica must be given a chance and I hope that in the coming weeks and months put in place an amnesty, but in the meantime I do want to political and budgetary level to political conditions to the implementation of these two new budget lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
The dialogue availability of all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary cooperation that will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
Until now, since under the chairmanship of Delors created a inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long and fruitful way and who has presided over this Group I must express the deep appreciation of the European outermost regions.
Of course I will inform the President of your speech.
The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
The EU must have the highest possible levels of food security for EU citizens.
Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning signal the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities
Today is to prevent the flexibility of closer cooperation, and it is bound to lose, also in this case.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, both in terms of its quality and its quantity. play an essential role in social cohesion and to town and country planning.
That is what I meant in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina has just to prove with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, find it hard to understand, even for the experts.
The debate is closed.
We shall now move to the vote.
Well, I believe that these matters lead to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
(A5-0314/2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the area of the fight against organised crime, laundering of the proceeds of infringements and the financial crime C5-0394/2000.
All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
I hope that, even if today is limited to vote in favour of this Charter, this House will make it indubitablemente clear in the next few weeks calling on the Council to the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
The most important thing for me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey's accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to the forces of the country and contributes to its development.
Duff/Voggenhuber recommendation (A5-0325/2000)
Therefore, the Charter should not be to decide and proclaim at the Nice Council, but that this summit to promote a European debate on it.
The role of Turkey in Cyprus is not acceptable.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici - which says that in order to make progress in Turkey's association with the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
On the other hand, the Commission, in its communication that D adopted on 4 October 2000 on the European Union's oil supply, points out that intends to present at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources should help to strengthen the energy efficiency, especially in the buildings and transport.
(The sitting was suspended at 18.55 p.m. and resumed at 21.00 p.m.)
The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot's report is, in my view, contrary to all reason in recent years, when Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform our agricultural policy.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the production companies, it would take no part in this system, preferring to the who already have systems: individual savings bank loans, compensation fund.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18 relate to issues, for example, in the United Kingdom and it has to be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, popular or Greens have defended with great vehemence and have been adopted in the Committee on the Environment.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
The non-Community Mediterranean countries face, there is no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to the economic development. acrecientan regional inequalities constantly.
The Union must do more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as a essential geopolitical strategy.
There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there are no detailed statistical data comparable to be able to see reliable what is in force in each country, what is - and where - what works better, what the weaknesses are, and so on, which is why, in fact, in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary policy, underlines the need, before legislate Community rules on supplementary insurance disease, for the Commission to draw up a green paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
Van also make a public distribution system compatible with private capitalisation systems and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of specific investment funds can obtain tax advantages in the long term and that they can help to address the problem of ageing.
Frankly, I am disappointed that in the statement yesterday Prime Minister Jospin had no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
In this regard, I would like to say that the group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
This is a huge amount.
I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, transfers of undertakings, rural desertification, hyperconcentration urban, with speeches innovative and specific involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources, by means of the genuine recognition of the principles of democracy.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to control the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.
I am delighted that Parliament has been able to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, the Commission's position with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the internal manual was sent on 11 October the employees of the Commission to inform you of how to deal with the applications for public access to documents tabled by members of the European Parliament.
I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels has pointed out - this is a very important issue.
We must, as a matter of urgent priority, go further: promote a change in the common agricultural policy.
I do not have the reservations which he has been able to express our colleague and friend, the chairman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, with regard to the issue of human rights.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time at the same time, however, I believe that there is no possible commitment to democracy and the question today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that arises for example to Guinea, when we now know that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
The vote on its delay means postponing the task to the Commission.
I think it is odd that we wish to organisations to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that the economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach that has been giving these regulations on capital which reinforce the issues relating to the risk.
The starting point of this report is ombudsmann's recommendation to the Commission, in relation to this, which make it possible for the candidates access to their examinations already remedied with regard to the selection procedure organised by the same.
This is the position defended by the rapporteur and the European People's Party shares.
It appears that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the School has a permanent seat.
Climate change have major consequences for the developing countries.
It is true that the text would have been better, and can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the cause is that nobody renunciation of its plaything.
- (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay which we have been and also my obligations, I will try to shorten the speech I had prepared.
Finally, I would like to express my group's concern at the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do their utmost to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now at the entrance to the winter.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with a democratic regime?
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 5 (42) of the Rules of procedure, to wind up this debate.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
From my point of view, there is a structure in the world of greater significance and fundamental: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, a whole continent; the part of the industrialised world currently more late in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
We this now because it is a good framework in itself.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford to, on the other hand, to enter into discussions with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals put forward by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority if necessary.
I believe that in the case of the limit the responsibility of the classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, the Council and Parliament must again to reflect together on this.
It is clear to what extent the logic of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is opposed to a high level of safety at sea.
Despite the fact that the amendment of the existing directive on the monitoring of vessels or the Watts report respond to the real needs, are steps in a positive sense, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
It would be a great success, since the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a rigid Europe, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe and close to the people, on the basis of respect for the national democracies.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU to have efficient institutions.
Just as serious is the pretence that a state which does not wish to take part in a mission is obliged to pay a financial contribution will the Member States involved in this war.
In the recent past, various scandals and failures concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
Recently in the United States have won trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of products.
It would be preferable to wait until such time as it has dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
Would be more justified than summer-time money at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what develops European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we need to abandon the principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
A new legal basis has been planned for the statute for European political parties and Parliament being granted the status of institutional plaintiff laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
Then, forget Nice, look at what is, I paid my hope with the draft convention put forward by Belgium for your Presidency, because it is shown, there is a clean sheet, there needs to be a change of method, we must speed up the history: 2004 it is too late, is too far, it is too dangerous.
This maximum obliges the Commission to set priorities within a limited budget, as must do all administration.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis by making use of Article 272; there have been the financial perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia intend to enter a permanent dialogue on political and security and create a permanent mechanism for this.
Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
This directive is 1992.
Now, the Authority must be established and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to move forward.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
It is clear that the difficulties in Indonesia has not been resolved overnight.
We would like to see the Member States open up negotiations to have uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a public prosecutor federal community.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
In the European Parliament what we have to do is to regulate a minimum way at European level the major areas that cause tensions in the procurement law, for example, presidency against shareholders, major shareholders against small or companies against capital market.
A number of the amendments proposed by Parliament still improve the text of the common position of the Council, as a result, their points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and that there is an urgent need for a more rapid transformation of the directive.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British postal service.
It sometimes seems as if the Commission, in the proposals deregulation in the trade and agricultural production at international level, even further than the Cairns Group.
During the 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always kept to this rule.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin decades, how can we give a minimum confidence in Mr Putin, executioner of the Chechen people, godfather of the various mafias, which insists on settle all kinds of opposition, civil society (Trade unions, political parties), in order to strengthen his personal power?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing real teeth and collection capacity.
The Primarolo group has produced simple rules is necessary to apply.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the area of maritime safety.
As a result of the criticisms made, especially Ireland and France, changed and now the British Finance Minister has given a different turn: now is presented as a right of usage rate for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
Then, it transpired that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
There have been many have suggested that the budget is too small.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is essential the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation
Mr President, the environment and public health are like a complicated machine with a lot of functions which monitor and we control in order to be able to play and that this should not be obstructed.
In addition, we object to the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to be sold.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, everything is as before.
But this Parliament fought for this reduction in the resources for innovative policies be compensated for using the flexibility instrument set in a clause of the budget estimate.
Everything that have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the Roca.
The competence of the Community, even though some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of ports to make repair work in submarines, or technical safety issues of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine may be withdrawn to repair elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution on whose behalf of course vote.
Such treatment is exactly the same as we see in Western Europe and, in view of the protests, the Minister Hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to the success of the political and social consensus on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for his excellent report.
We must not pay for certain products not demand or make propaganda.
