Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
This applies both to Latvia and the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and with the present government the economy, at last, is giving real signs of improvement.
Must also apply. European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
The political vision remains the same.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process within the meaning of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission Prodi.
The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language on which it has been used within the European Union.
This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of goodwill of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey.
We should not interfere in these achievements we reached with so many efforts.
I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to the natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment applies only to individuals.
In my own country, to own a escopeta needs a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo of my garden.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions from uses and consumption on hydrocarbons does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
The money must be spent in the future way of objectives and more effective, and, of course, be better guarantee funds are used for the purpose for which the allocated the budgetary authority.
I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote that will, but the truth is that we must verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
With an average of three hours a day, is the human activity more important after the dream, and for adults, after the work.
Paciotti, and I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what it is going to happen with the resources for mine-clearance.
Madam President, the Europeans would certainly very inspired if collected flight to the ball us that that same which the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
When it appears that Milosevic has fled and the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies delay only a few days' time.
On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests of companies that have felt a certain powerlessness following certain decisions on mergers, particularly relating to cases where they had need to appeal to the Commission's decision before the Court of First Instance.
The Commission has followed acting firm and especially against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
I would remind you that the vote will take place later, at 12.30 noon.
Also, when the candidate countries accede, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
On the one hand, the decision by the head of the Israeli Government to freeze the peace negotiations by violence in the region and focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
The debate is closed.
Without this fundamental reference, at best we understand each other and, at worst, we slaughtered each other.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
Unfortunately, the ultimate objective of a European constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
These two issues are often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.
Despite the fact that, as a member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this committee and despite the great respect I have for the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I must insist on two amendments that our committee is once again proposing now before the House and which remain important but have been reduced the figures.
Political messages in this year's budget are, as stated by Commissioner Schreyer - many. the restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, ensure better implementation of structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
And I say so clear and unequivocal: you Kostunica must be given a chance and I hope that in the coming weeks and months put in place an amnesty, but in the meantime I would like that at political level and budgetary put political conditions to the implementation of these two new budget lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
The availability to dialogue between all the institutions involved has given rise to an exemplary collaboration which will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
Until now, since under the chairmanship of Delors the setting-up of an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long and fruitful path and who has chaired the Group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans outermost.
Of course I shall inform the President of your speech.
The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
The EU must have the highest standards possible food safety for its citizens.
Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a signal warns the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities
Today is to avoid making strengthened cooperation more flexible, and it is bound to lose its departure, in this case too.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, in both quality and quantity. play an essential role in social cohesion and to town and country planning.
That is what I meant in the report on the draft slim, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina we just try reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
The debate is closed.
It will come now to the vote.
Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
(A5-0314/2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the field of the fight against organised crime, laundering of the proceeds of infringements and crime in financial matters C5-0394/2000.
All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
I hope that, even if today is limited to regard the adoption of this Charter, this House will make it clear indubitablemente in the coming weeks calling on the Council to the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
What is most important to me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey's accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to force the amendments the country and promote their development.
Recommendation Duff/Voggenhuber (A5-0325/2000)
Therefore, the Charter should not be to decide and proclaimed at the Nice Council, but at that summit should be encouraged a European debate on it.
Nor is it acceptable Turkey's role in Cyprus.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici - which says that in order to make progress on the association of Turkey and the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the Cyprus issue?
Furthermore, the Commission, in the communication adopted on 4 October 2000 d on the oil supply of the European Union, states that wishes to table at the Gothenburg European Council, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources which should help to strengthen energy efficiency, especially in buildings and transport.
(The sitting was suspended at 18.55 p.m. and resumed at 21.00 p.m.)
The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot's report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, although with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform our agricultural policy.
On the one hand, producers more important, or those who are integrated with companies producing not, this device, preferring to systems that are already: savings individual loans, compensation fund.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, relating to issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom and it must be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, popular or the Greens have defended with great vehemence and have been adopted in the Environment Committee.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
The Mediterranean countries from outside are, of course, problems particularly serious relating to economic development. regional inequalities are acrecientan endlessly.
The Union must make more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as a strategy geopolitical indispensable.
There are, however, big differences between the various countries of the Union, and there is a lack of statistical data detailed comparable to see convincing proof of what is in force in each country, what is - and where - what works better, what the weaknesses are, etc. it is precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drafted on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary policy, underlines the need, before legislating Community rules on insurance supplementary disease, for the Commission to draw up a green paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
Also move in the direction of reconcile a public system of distribution systems with private capitalisation and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of investment fund specific can obtain tax advantages in the long term and which can help to deal with the problem of ageing.
Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday that Prime Minister Jospin there were no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
In this regard, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
This is a huge amount.
I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, relocations, rural desertification, hiperconcentración urban, with speeches innovative and practical involving the participation of social partners, local authorities and national and joint action by the citizens.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a problem of democracy.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources, through the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions allows citizens to monitor the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.
I am pleased that Parliament has managed to create a broad majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, the Commission's position with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the manual internal was sent on 11 October employees of the Commission to inform you of how to handle applications for public access to documents submitted by Members of the European Parliament.
I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of citizens to information and knowledge.
Why would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels stated - this is a very important issue.
There is a pressing need to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
I have no reservations which he has been able to express our colleague and friend, the chairman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the question of human rights.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time at the time, but I believe that no compromise is possible with democracy and the question being asked today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that arises for example in Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
The vote on your participation means postponing the task to the Commission.
I think it is odd that wants to be it is to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach which has been giving these regulations on capital which reinforce the issues relating to risk.
The starting point of this report is the recommendation of the ombudsmann to the Commission, in relation to this, which make it possible for the candidates access to their examinations already corrected regarding the selection procedure organised by the same.
This is the position defended by the rapporteur and that the European People's Party shares.
It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the College has a permanent headquarters.
Climate change have major consequences in developing countries.
It is true that its wording could have been better, and it can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody renunciation of its plaything.
- (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay and we also my duty, I will try to be brief the speech I had prepared.
Finally I would like to express my group's concern at the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do their utmost to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now at the entrance to the winter.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with an undemocratic regime?
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 5 (42) of the Rules of procedure, to wind up this debate.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
In my view, in the world is not a structure that magazine greater significance and fundamental: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, an entire continent; the part of the globe currently most industrialised late in the Union and, through it, in the Commission through its structures.
Once again this now because it is a good framework in itself.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford, moreover, to discuss with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals put forward by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with qualified majority if necessary.
I believe that in the case of the limit liability of classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today, it is essential that the Council and Parliament will reflect together on this.
It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is opposed to a high degree of safety at sea.
Despite that neither the amendment of the existing directive on control of vessels or the Watts report correspond to the real needs, give certain steps in a positive sense, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
It would be rather a great success, since the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a rigid Europe, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe and closer to the people, therefore based on respect for national democracies.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU has efficient institutions.
Just as serious is the pretence that a state which does not wish to take part in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution repartirán states participating in that war.
In the recent past, various scandals and failures concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
Recently in the United States they have earned trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of products.
It would be preferable to wait until we have dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
It would be more justified that summer-time terminase at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
Madam President, during the Trakatellis report on the extension of European programmes that exist in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what way is evolving European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given in principle their consent.
Never, at Member State level or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
Provision has been made for a legal basis new to the statute for European political parties and Parliament being granted the status of institutional plaintiff laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
Then, forget Nice, look at what comes after, and let me that you sparking off my hope with the draft convention great progress by Belgium for your Presidency, because it is demonstrated that there is a clean sheet, we need to change of method, must be accelerated history: 2004 is too late, is far too, it is too dangerous.
This maxim obliges the Commission to set priorities within a limited budget, as must make any authority.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis resorting to Article 272; there have been the Financial Perspective, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
In the political field, the common strategy towards Russia intend to enter a permanent dialogue on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism.
Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
This directive is 1992.
We now need to establish the authority and I believe that the authorities are European European European and that we must go ahead.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen for the excellent work she has done.
It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
We would like to see Member States open up negotiations have a uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a public prosecutor federal community.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that, stormy way to overcome some of the difficulties that exist.
In the European Parliament what we must do is to regulate in a way minimum at European level the major areas which cause tension on the right of acquisitions, for example, presidency towards shareholders, major shareholders against small companies or against capital market.
Some amendments proposed by Parliament further improve the text of the Council's common position. as a result, their points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and are to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British Post Office.
Sometimes seems as if the Commission, in the proposals deregulation in trade and agricultural production at international level, outside even further than the Cairns Group.
During the 35 years because of my long parliamentary life I have always adhered to this rule.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin decades, how can we grant a minimum trust Mr Putin, executioner of the Chechen people, godfather of the various mafias, which is committed to settle any kind of opposition, civil society (Unions, political parties), to strengthen his personal power?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing grip and capacity for collection.
The Primarolo group has produced a simple rules which must be applied.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the area of maritime safety.
As a result of the criticisms made, particularly in Ireland and France, was changed so far and now the Minister of Finance British has taken a turn for the different: now is presented as a rate by right of use for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
Then, it also transpired that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
There have been many those who have suggested that the budget is too small.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is essential to the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation
Mr President, the environment and public health are like a complicated machine with a lot of functions we monitor and check to intervene and that this should not be obstructed.
In addition, we object to the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for information for sale.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, everything is as before.
But this Parliament also fought for this reduction in resources for the innovative policies were offset using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the Roca.
Community competence, even if some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of ports for making repair work in submarines, or questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine may be withdrawn for repair elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution on whose behalf obviously vote.
Such treatment is exactly the same as we see in Western Europe and in protests, the Minister Hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a consensus political and social on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for her excellent report.
We must not pay for certain products that are not demand, nor to make propaganda.
