Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
This applies both to Latvia as member of the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and with the current government of the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
They must also apply to the European Community law is not only a law in the books, but it must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
The policy remains the same.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003, the European Union for the enlargement process in the direction of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission Prodi.
The importance and the extent of the problems connected with the enlargement is not compadecen with the double language on which it has been used within the European Union.
This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of goodwill on the part of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey.
We must not interfere in these achievements we shall achieve with so much effort.
I cannot accept the references made by the Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment applies only to individuals.
In my own country, to possess a escopeta would require a licence, but not for instalarme as seller arms in a cobertizo of my garden.
Thank, Mr Commissioner?
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions of uses and consumption of mineral oils does not lead to a not comply with Community provisions on competition.
The money must be spent on the future of a more tight to objectives and more effective and, of course, be better to ensure that the funds to devote to the purposes for which it has allocated by the budgetary authority.
I hope that this does not change the meaning of the vote to express, but the truth is that we need to verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report?
In terms of belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this field.
With an average of three hours, is the most important human activity after the dream, and for adults, following the work.
Mrs Paciotti, I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources intended for mine clearance.
Europeans, Madam President, would certainly very inspired the flight recogieran if we launched the ball here by the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
It seems that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this union of democracies is delayed only a few days.
On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain sense impotence as a result of certain decisions on mergers, especially those relating to cases where they had need to call on the Commission's decision in the Court of First Instance.
The Commission has followed the firm and especially against cartels and the abuse of dominant positions.
I would remind the honourable Member that, after the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m.
In addition, when the candidate countries join, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
On the one hand, the head of the Israeli Government's decision to freeze the peace negotiations on the violence in the region and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration on the opposition leader, Mr.
The debate is closed..
In the absence of this reference fundamental, at best left to understand each other, and in the worst, we matamos between us.
I shall not go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
These two issues are often repeated in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, the tension between the two bodies of the budgetary authority.
Despite that, as a Member of the same, I appreciate very much the work of this committee and despite the great respect I deserves the work of the rapporteurs, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I cannot fail to insist on two amendments which the Commission is now presenting to plenary and I remain important though the figures have been reduced.
Political messages in this year's budget are - as the Commissioner said many Schreyer. The restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to combat social exclusion.
And I say so clear and unambiguous Kostunica to him: we need to give an opportunity, and I hope that in the coming weeks and months to implement an amnesty, but in the meantime I do that at political and budgetary policies are put conditions for the implementation of these two new budget lines, namely democratisation and reconstruction.
The availability of dialogue with all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary collaboration which will allow us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
Until today, since, under the chairmanship of Delors created an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long way and fruitful and who has presided over this group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans outermost regions.
Of course I will inform the chairman of your speech.
The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
The EU must have the highest possible food safety for its citizens.
The two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning sign of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities of
Today is to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will lose the departure, also in this case.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, as well as in quantity. play a key role for the social cohesion and to town and country planning.
To that I referred to in the report on the SLIM project, because the Community legislation, and Mr Medina us just prove with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
The debate is closed..
It is will now to the vote.
Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
(A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving the mutual assistance in criminal matters, particularly in the field of the fight against organised crime, the laundering of products of infringements and crime financial matters (10213 / 2000 - C5 ­ 0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).
All these points are covered in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I am confident that Parliament will approve these amendments.
I hope that, even today to be limited to give its support to this letter, this House will make clear indubitablemente over the coming weeks, which calls on the Council the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility of recourse to the European Court of Justice.
The most important thing for me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey's accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to reformadoras forces of the country and promote their development.
Recommendation Duff / Voggenhuber (A5-0325 / 2000.
Therefore, the Charter is not should decide and proclaim at the Nice Council, but that the summit should be to promote a European debate on the same.
It is not acceptable the role of Turkey in Cyprus.
The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici, which says that in order to make progress with the accession of Turkey to the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
Furthermore, the Commission, in the communication adopted by the D 4 October 2000 on the supply of oil, the European Union says that it wants to submit, at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy savings and diversification of energy sources, which should help to improve energy efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
(The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.
The extra aid Community raised in the report by Mr Garot is, in my view, contrary to all wisdom in recent years, when the Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we reform our agricultural policy.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those companies with integrated production, not participate in this mechanism, preferring systems that are already: savings, individual loans, compensation fund.
Some amendments, such as 1 and 18, relate to issues that affect mainly the United Kingdom and it must be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, popular or the Greens, have defended with great passion and have been approved by the Committee on the Environment.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment 12 and Amendment No 37.
The Mediterranean non-Community countries are, of course, a particularly serious problems relating to the economic development regional disparities are constantly acrecientan.
The Union must make further proposals and consider enlargement to Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there are no detailed comparable statistics in order to establish a reliable what is in force in each country, which is where - and what works best, what the weaknesses are, etc., precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drawn up on the task of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Policy, it highlights the need to legislate, before the Community rules on the supplementary insurance of disease, and the Commission to draw up a Green Paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
They are also in the sense of making compatible with a system of public distribution systems of private capitalisation and are also obviously compatible with support for the creation of investment funds to obtain specific tax benefits in the long term and which can help to deal with the problem of ageing.
Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday Prime Minister Jospin had not no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
In this respect, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
It is a huge amount.
I agree on the need for better understanding of the causes of poverty, support for preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, of relocations, rural desertification, hiperconcentración urban, with speeches innovative and concrete that involve the participation of social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of citizens.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources, through the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
Access to documents and information on the activities of institutions enables citizens to control of the governing bodies of the EU and stimulates greater efficiency.
I am pleased that Parliament has managed to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, the Commission's position on public access to the documents can be seen in the internal handbook that was sent on 11 October to employees of the Commission to report on how to manage the requests for public access to documents presented by the European Parliament.
I believe that it has taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of citizens to information and knowledge.
The reason why I would suggest that the vote is aplazáramos that - as pointed out by Mr Goebbels - this is a very important issue.
It is necessary and urgent to go further: to promote a change of the common agricultural policy.
I do not have the reservations which have been able to express our esteemed colleague and friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the question of human rights.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is relative when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which needs to be given time to time, but I believe that there is no possible commitment to democracy and the question today for the Ivory Coast is the same as that arises, for example to Guinea, when we know that there are currently in prison and that there is a democratic system.
The vote on its postergación means postponing the mandate to the Commission.
It seems strange that you now maniatar to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but that at the same time, ask a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and insurance doctors complementary.
In fact this first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach that has been given to these regulations on capital which reinforce the issues relating to the risk.
The starting point of this report is the ombudsmann's recommendation to the Commission, in relation to the foregoing, enabling the candidates to access to their examinations already corrected in respect of the selection procedure, organised by the same.
That is also the position defended by the rapporteur and that the European People's Party shares.
It seems that the majority of the speakers so far considers that it is essential that the College has a permanent headquarters.
The climatic changes have major consequences in developing countries.
It is true that the text could be improved, and it can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
This is the situation in which we enfrascado for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody renouncing its plaything.
Mr President, bearing in mind the delay and we also my obligations, I will try to abreviar the speech I had prepared.
Finally, I would like to express my group's concern for the increasingly worse situation in Afghanistan and to urge the Commission and the Council to do everything possible to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of the winter.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with a democratic regime not?
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the four rapporteurs for the excellent work.
In my view, in the world, there is a structure which Journal a greater and more fundamental importance: 15 Member States and in the future twenty or more, an entire continent; the part of the world currently most industrialised tawny in the Union and through it, in the Commission, through its structures.
We are once again this now, because it is a good framework in itself.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford, on the other hand, to discuss with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals made by you, and to adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority if necessary.
I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, it is essential that the Council and Parliament again to reflect together on this.
It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is opposed, in fact, to a high level of maritime safety.
Despite the fact that neither the amendment of the current directive on the control of ships or the Watts report respond to real needs, give certain steps in a positive sense, that is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
Rather, it would be a great success, for the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, Europe is not a rigid, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe, close to the people and therefore based on respect for national democracies.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU institutions to have effective.
Equally serious is the claim that a state that does not wish to take part in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution to repartirán States participating in that war.
In a recent past, various scandals and failures of operation concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr Morillon.
Recently in the United States have earned trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of products.
It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
I would be more justified that summer-time terminase at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
I should like to express my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, for his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the opposing positions.
Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what sense is developing the European policy on public health.
I gather that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
It has provided for a new legal basis for the statute for European political parties and Parliament is accorded the status of the plaintiff institutional provided for in Article 230 of the Treaty.
Then, let us look at Nice, which comes after me, and I hope that you alimente with the draft convention very advanced by Belgium for your presidency, as is shown, we have to make a clean sheet, we need to change the method, we must speed up history: 2004 is too late, is far too, it is too dangerous.
This maximum requires the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as must all administration.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis recourse to Article 272, have been held in the financial perspective, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and to establish a permanent mechanism for it.
Do you intend to support this project, Mr Commissioner Patten?
This directive is of 1992?
Now, we must establish this authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that will have to move forward.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia has not been resolved, overnight.
We would like to see Member States opened negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a federal European Prosecutor.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
In the European Parliament on what we should do is to regulate in a minimal at European level for the large areas which cause tensions in the law of acquisitions, for example, the presidency towards shareholders, large shareholders face or small businesses face capital market.
Some amendments tabled by Parliament further improve the text of the Council's common position as a result, their points focused attention on the issues that could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and that urgen to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which metieron in the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the postal service of British.
Sometimes seems as if the Commission, the proposals in the deregulation of trade and agricultural production at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.
During the already 35 years of my life long parliamentary I have always adhered to this rule.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin, for decades, how can we give a minimal trust Mr Putin executioner, the Chechen people, the godfather of the various mafias, which insists settle all kinds of opposition, civil society, political parties (trade unions), to enhance their personal power?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing garra and collection of capacity.
The Primarolo group has produced simple rules that is necessary to apply.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his continuing commitment in the field of maritime safety.
As a result of the criticisms received, particularly in Ireland and France, has changed the extent and now the British Finance Minister has given a different turn: now is presented as a tax on the right of use for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
Then, it was also found that the Commission lacked the necessary instruments to act properly.
There have been many who suggested that the budget is too small.
Finally, if that is the precautionary principle is to be effective and credible, it is essential for the participation of all those involved, including the representatives of civil society, political decisions surrounding its implementation.
Mr President, the environment and public health are as a complicated machine with a lot of functions that vigilamos and control to intervene and that it is not ruin it.
In addition, we object to overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources earmarked for the information to sell them.
The really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, all remains as before.
But this Parliament also fought to this reduction in the resources for innovative policies were compensated using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause for the budget estimate.
All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the rock.
The competence of the Community, even if some people want something else, it does not cover the classification of ports to carry out repairs submarines, even in matters of safety of nuclear reactors or technical requirements for a submarine be withdrawn for its repair elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution in which we will vote in favour of course.
This is exactly the same treatment to see in Western Europe, and before protests, Minister hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a social and political consensus on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
First of all, I congratulate Mr Dary for her excellent report.
We must not pay for certain products that are not demand, or to propaganda.
