The population of more and more older at home and the borders more open than ever, involving a fragmentation is in the European countries.  
Some favouring affirmative action programmes which give preference to the minorities for the allocation of jobs, the admission of the College and the granting of public contracts.  
Others are opposed to the affirmative action and to argue that a policy of blind to the races, along with the policies of the free market and the values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep to the black families.  
The money of the French taxpayer would be better employed in profits for the temporary workers posted in subsidies to maintain living a plant is not profitable.  
For decades, through administrations Democrats and republicanas, the United States has sought a series of clear objectives of energy policy: to maintain world prices of oil as stable as possible; to reduce the internal consumption of mineral oils way less painful; to reduce the dependence on imports, provided that it is possible; and to diversify the sources of the oil imported.  
The future of Iraq is directly dependent on the fate of the production of oil from the country.  
Before the invasion, the production capacity of Iraqi oil reached the three million barrels per day.  
This year it was the turn of Africa to nominar President, and became a to Libya.  
Let us remember: Libya is a totalitarian regime; its leader, moammar kadafi erratic behaviour, combining with political extremists, and supporting dictators in the world as a whole.  
The authoritarian to websites.  
On the contrary, one of them was promoted to address the recently created (with funds from the EU) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.  
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third major democratic country in the world and in the most democratic Community Muslim history.  
This means that for every cut-throat not implemented, would die three innocent victims.  
Of course, I am concerned about the risk of implementing a innocent.  
And this process has been strengthened, with the development of the identification based on the DNA.  
Although these filters politicians are a complex issue in the post-Communist societies, where both the victimisation and cooperation are so common and the limits between them are so unclear, could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.  
As in Ukraine, the Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, decided on the streets.  
But too low a level can give the same result.  
The debt of the government of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their income tax is dedicated to the payment of interest.  
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that would accede to the EU at a future date and not specified.  
Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is threatened by a reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.  
Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and the coca leaf, may be a democratic leader honestly, although disoriented, but it does have its supporters of authoritarian wishes?  
The French State spending huge amounts of money on the improvement of its language and its culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware of the overall position of your country is no longer what it was ever again.  
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought they had finished with this aspect of the controversy at show that France, Germany, Italy and great Britain have approximately the same levels of life per capita.  
A "shock therapy 'in the style of Mrs.  
One of the major challenges for the future of the EU is to tackle the superiority of the solidarity would be directed towards the elderly people of solidarity on the dynamic that benefits to young people.  
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity in that it also has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.  
It encompasses the relations between the State, society and the market.  
When the opposition to the government pláticas offers on the reform of the system of health, or more recently on combating unemployment, the underlying competition is about capabilities, rather than about values.  
However, under the fields of common political debate in England and Germany and in other parts of Europe merodean shocks of values.  
But the day will come when the world will begin to raise interest rates, to measure the Central bankers are prepared to withstand the slow upward trend of inflation.  
What will happen when the banks will begin to raise the rates of interest?  
The international flows of capital - to include those who arrive in the eu-todavía are not the level that is associated with the irrational exuberance ", but there is still time for this to happen before we begin to raise interest rates.  
In addition, the confidence in the federal reserve is high and have been taken from the rates of interest to the last vestiges of risk premiums inflationary.  
In those periods - particularly when the value of the assets of falling quickly and sustancial-podemos give account exactly the ability of our Central bankers to comply with its main task: to reduce the volatility of the financial and to promote economic stability.  
Certainly the challenges that will face the builders of economic policy in the world over the next few years will be different to those who have faced since the collapse of the bubble of the world.  
In a word, not.  
Even after the sentences, the generals were sufficiently powerful to achieve that ends the judgments and after obtaining the sorry the incoming President.  
The policy of Argentina remain enredada on the legal implications of those judgments of 20 years ago.  
The number of decisions taken in effect ICTY founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.  
During the regime of Saddam was not made efforts to raise the standard of living of the poor.  
What can we do now? "  
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq that has made the people back to them in fact to kill.  
Likewise, we can reinstate the technocrats who worked on the government of the form that they will also have the opportunity to stay in their country.  
It is the most significant ones which derives from incubate ideas, that the result of the products of previous findings.  
Driven by a management influenced by religion, the educational systems are changing its approach to the sciences' values'.  
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the possibility is more meagre and hard to get, what has decreased the flow of young talent to the American universities.  
Even if the United States are an average age of fundamentalist, clearly run the risk of losing its domination worldwide in the field of research.  
The Central idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other Nations' control of the food chain of the military technology.  
There is no reason for which we were not able to get the same result in the Middle East.  
The pragmatic Iranians argue that inevitably Iran must cooperate with the USA, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.  
Sooner or later, argue, the USA and the international Community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.  
In total, the supporters of the cooperation call a negotiation open and explicit: the support of Iran to stability during the current phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government is that arises in Iraq, whatever their mark, instead of an improvement in the position of regional and international of Iran.  
They believe that the USA has decided to undermine the security of Iran and harm their national interests.  
The only question is how satisfacerlo.  
Turkey, from one side of the Middle East, and to the other, already going quite advanced.  
These groups argue that, if the regime does not propose to rig the election results, the presence of observers to the national foreign electoral process should not be a problem.  
There will be named the European Central Bank to extend its currency, as if we were to follow the dollar outside the answer to all the problems that affect industrial, structural and population in Europe.  
An account of policy  
But almost everyone agrees that science is another thing, and in this, the United States are becoming a cautionary example for the rest of the world.  
In its articles to one of the few independent newspapers that remain in Moscow, novaya novaïa, and on its books "Putin 's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "dirty war: to Russian report in Chechnya" (a dirty war: a Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote about the dissipation of the freedoms that is the identification of the Presidency of Mr Putin.  
After all, as a journalist from research enfureció to many people in addition of Putin, between the meeting, no less, that the current Prime Minister, Minister,, to whom she accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.  
The period of six years since that Vladimir Putin, has been arrived at a time of signals deeply opposed.  
Gerhard Schroeder, who even less than a month ago, it was Chancellor of Germany, accepted to be President of the enterprise that is building a gaseoducto from Russia, across the Baltic sea even Germany, and from there to Western Europe.  
The avoid Ukraine, Poland, and of course, the Baltic States, the new gaseoducto promised to give greater influence the influence in its eagerness to reposition themselves.  
In effect, with her: after apprenticeships give rise to integrate and increase our business down of gas, write to the Russian editorialistas, Europe keep silent about human rights.  
As a former head of State of the newly independent Lithuania, frequently had to endure those threats.  
If the Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, they must recognise that these values are not shared by the officials have the influence of Putin.  
While we fought, confidentiality continuing gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.  
Many times we had to resort to the Court to force a disclosure of information, appealing to the freedom of information act of extension of Romania.  
Today, within the government, I am aware that the sharing of information to the public is often difficult.  
When the United States adopted its freedom of information act in 1996, we accepted the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.  
The information published without due regard for the government of Brazil indicates that the deforestation of the forests irreplaceable the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion to agricultural land, became the 2.6 million hectares (close to 26, 000 square kms.) last year, taking the total area deforestada Amazonas a 17%.  
The Alliance between the WWF and the world Bank also caused to the associated with this initiative to create a trust Fund to administer in perpetuity these areas to be protected.  
The leaders of businesses, the governments and the organisations of civil society must play its role to make reality this vision.  
Our results offer a remarkably nuanced image of the Saudi attitudes.  
A century later, the economic miracle scientist was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europeans in a place of rapid technological progress and social.  
Today, they are fully aware of their vision of post-colonial slightly nostálgica of these countries as large export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is null and void.  
Perhaps the Asian would be to consider the European model as a version of the policy of Venice as a place to visit with nostalgia for its past glory and admiration for their quality of life.  
A more important question is whether the EU are divided irremediably.  
What the result we stated that has won a mandate for the exchange of less than it seems to believe.  
In effect, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and why so fast.  
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction in poverty, whereas in Mexico real wages fell.  
All the opportunities which the market of the EU gave to Mexico were not able to counteract the consequences of the errors of internal policy, above all able to reverse the appreciation of the exchange rate of the scale and to extend the rest of the economy of the improvements in productivity achieved in a limited range of activities of export.  
There are many questions.  
Sometimes certain Iranian officials may have acted by his account of the sort and coordinate operations will feel that they have more specific, freedom to do so.  
In addition, openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.  
In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, we might expect that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by Republicans were cautious when it comes to propose new reductions of taxation.  
So it is that it seems that the mass influx of budget deficits to stay.  
Participation in the elections of 2002 was just a 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of the voters admissible.  
George W. Bush has contributed most to the ruin of the economic policy of the USA that no other President of the history of the United States, even going beyond its mentor, Ronald Reagan.  
This argument is also wrong.  
In any case, it is a great mistake the tax base policies of long term in the business cycle of short term.  
The second lesson is that countries should plan their Budgets by taking into account the increase in the costs of an ageing population.  
Essentially, not only are making predictions about the economy, but also about the policies - and perhaps on the values culturales-que give way to the strategies and the economic performance.  
When the markets to create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, will be better prepared for monitoring the risks facing these cities and, thus, to stabilise their economies and our own lives.  
What news moving the markets?  
Without doubt, this was an important fact that may affect the securities markets throughout the world.  
But this approach makes sense in what to intuition concerns.  
The move towards a more made important progress with ethical also in the United States, since the consumers indisputably, more and more, by organic food produced locally and eggs from hens that are not held in cages.  
To the small farmers, for its part, they are required to be organised in joint or other groups which permit the democratic participation.  
Lindsey, director of the centre for studies of trade policy of the promercadista studies Institute, believes that the campaign to introduce fair trade labels is a blind alley well-meant ".  
From the perspective of the farmers, it is preferable to receive a bonus for to sell a product introduce fair trade labels that receive a donation of charity which would receive all ways, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.  
Of course, the common sense would have led to the same conclusion.  
Neither this nor the Member States are particularly progressive - both voted by George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.  
There is no legislation requires about the welfare of farm animals, and very little in the State.  
On the whole, their appointments pose a challenge of the objective that has Mr Karzai of reuniting the country.  
An eleventh served as a pilot.  
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets operate efficiency as if the manejara an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.  
Unfortunately, the university students of these programmes are those who now devising policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that has been called fundamentalism of the market.  
The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to look to the people and the economy such as they are, as we want to be.  
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, appears to have been Finally to the reality of the increased dependence of us; with the enormous increase in oil prices, it is difficult not to note the consequences.  
Never before the world had seen a growth so held; never before has there been such a level of reduction of poverty.  
There will be focused on the grounds of growth to object to the existence of social policies and means of sound environmental: for example, say that "if climbing the taxes on petrol, that will mean the stifling of our emerging automotive industry".  
There is only one way to avoid: an open debate of the economic policies, with the aim of putting the discovered the fallacies and give room for creative solutions to the many challenges faced by China today.  
The lessons of democracy on the democracy  
Nothing could pretend which the events and the values for themselves; in fact, merely copiaban opinions toscas and simplified the masses.  
If we want to shape the citizens informed and criticism that democracy needs, our schools should fail to abide by the unwelcome temporary more recent and begin to improve analytical capabilities of the students.  
This concern about the mass media communication is not mere contempt elitist towards the popular culture.  
The result of that failure is a widespread indifference and a part of the public.  
What is very late to do something about a culture which then both the spirit?  
I believe that our future is as promising as well is the past in Europe, and that our destiny is not to be a forgotten country of a region in cross-border problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and the unity of Europe.  
The self-determination no longer mean isolation, for achieving the independence of national today means only back at the world stage with a new status.  
Part of the task of renewing Ukraine is a battle creative in order to put an end to a century of nightmare in the fascism and Communism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, have fought for the total power.  
In the wake of the allegations officers from the UK against Hezbollah, the State of Arabia called their clerics wahabíes officers to issue fatuas condemning to hazbolah as an organisation of herejes and cismáticos Shiites.  
Clearly, this increases what is at stake.  
But this unwilling to accept a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of the famosamente irrational "derzhava": a Russian ethos aggressive glorifying the State and affirm its strength through the oppression of the weakest.  
This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis in Russia.  
