 The population increasingly old at home and borders more open than ever, entail a racial fragmentation in European countries.
 Some encourage affirmative action programs that give preference to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to the College and the allocation of public contracts.
 Other oppose affirmative action and argue that a blind policy to races, together with free-market policies and the values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep the black families.
 The French taxpayers' money would be better spent on temporary benefits to posted workers in subsidies to keep alive a plant not lucrative.
 For decades, through democratic and Republican administrations, the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining global oil prices as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons in the way less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify sources of oil imported.
 The future of Iraq is directly dependent upon the fate of oil production of the country.
 Before the invasion, the ability of Iraqi oil production was three million barrels per day.
 This year was the question Africa to nominate the President, and appointed Libya.
 Remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyranny; its leader, moammar kadafi, combines erratic behaviour with policies extremists, and supports dictators throughout the world.
 At the gates authoritarian
 On the contrary, one of them was promoted to steer the newly-established (with funds from the US) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.
 Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third most democratic country in the world and in the greater democratic community of Muslim history.
 This means that for every murderer would not executed three innocent victims.
 Of course I am worried about the risk of executing a innocent.
 And this process has been strengthened so much with the development of the identification based on DNA.
 Although these filters are political a complex matter in Postcommunist societies, where both the victimization and the cooperation are so widespread and the boundaries between them are so unclear, it could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
 As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
 But too low a level can provide the same result.
 India's government debt is more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenues are dedicated to the payment of interest.
 In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that would accede to the Union at a future date and not specified.
 Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is threatened by a reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
 Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and growers of coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but his followers lack of authoritarian wishes?
 The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware that the overall position of their country is no longer what once was.
 The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that had finished with this aspect of the controversy to demonstrate that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have roughly the same standards of living per capita.
 A "shock therapy" in the style of Mrs.
 One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards the elderly on solidarity dynamic that benefit young people.
 Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity in which also has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
 Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
 When the opposition offers the government talks on the reform of the health system, or more recently on the fight to unemployment, competition is underlying on capabilities, rather than on values.
 However, below the battlefields common political debate in England and Germany and in other parts of Europe shocks marauding of values.
 But the day will come when global interest rates start to rise, as that central bankers prepare to resist the slow upward trend of inflation.
 What will happen when the banks start to increase interest rates?
 International capital flows - including the coming to the eu-todavía are not the level associated with the "irrational exuberance", but there is still time for this to happen before that interest rates start to rise.
 Moreover, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and were extracted from interest rates the last vestiges of risk premiums.
 In these times - particularly when the value of assets fall quickly and realise sustancial-podemos exactly the ability of our central bankers to meet its main task: to reduce financial volatility and promote economic stability.
 Certainly the challenges that will face designers of economic policy of the world during the next few years will be different to those who have approached since the collapse of the NASDAQ bubble.
 In a word, not.
 Even after the convictions, generals were powerful enough to ensure that the vote trials and then obtain forgiveness by the incoming President.
 The policy of Argentina is still entangled in the legal consequences of those judgments of 20 years ago.
 The ICTY took into effect founding several decisions under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
 During Saddam's regime is not made efforts to raise living standards of the poor.
 What can we do now? "
 Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq that has meant that people will be insensitive to the fact kill.
 Similarly, we can rehabilitate technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they, too, have the opportunity to serve their country.
 More significantly respect that derives from incubate ideas, that the emerging from the products of previous discoveries.
 Driven by an administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach of science to the "values".
 Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are more scarce and difficult to obtain, which has diminished the flow of young talent to the American universities.
 Even if the United States wars of an average age fundamentalist clearly, run the risk of losing its predominance world in the field of research.
 The central idea was that military power could be made obsolete if other nations control "the food chain" of military technology.
 There is no reason why it was not possible to arrive at the same result in the Middle East.
 Pragmatists Iranian inevitably argue that Iran will have to cooperate with the US, at least to ensure the rights of the Iraqi population Shi'ite.
 Sooner or later, argue, the US and the international community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
 In short, the advocates of cooperation are calling for an open and explicit negotiation: Iran's support for the stability during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government learning that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position of regional and international Iran.
 They think that America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
 The only question is how satisfacerlo.
 Turkey, on one side of the Middle East, and Morocco, on the other, are already quite advanced.
 These groups argue that, if the regime does not intend to rig the election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process should not be a problem.
 There will be called the European Central Bank to extend your monetary base, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all problems, structural and demographic industrial affecting Europe.
 An epidemic of policy
 But almost everyone agrees that the sciences are something else, and in this, the United States are becoming a sobering example for the rest of the world.
 In its articles on one of the few remaining independent newspapers in Moscow, novaya gazeta, and in his books "Putin's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "dirty war in Chechnya: Russian Reporter '" (a dirty war: a Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote about the dissipation of the freedoms that it is the mark of identification of Putin's Presidency.
 After all, as investigative journalist offending many people in addition to Putin, including, nothing less than the current Prime Minister, Ramzan Chechen Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.
 The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came to the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals.
 Gerhard Schroeder, who to less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that is building a gas pipeline from Russia, via the Baltic Sea to Germany, and from there to Western Europe.
 To avoid Ukraine, Poland, and, of course, the Baltic countries, the new gas pipeline promises to give greater influence the Kremlin in their pursuit of reposition themselves regionally.
 Indeed, are feasting themselves with it: after to integrate and increase our common business gas, written by the editorialistas Russians, Europe keep silent on human rights.
 As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
 If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom must recognize that these values are not shared by officials of the Kremlin's fear of Putin.
 While fighting, continuing secrecy led to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
 Many times we had to resort to the Court to force a disclosure, appealing to the Freedom of Information Act 2001 of Romania.
 Today, within the government, I am aware that information sharing with the public is sometimes difficult.
 When the United States adopted its Freedom of Information Act in 1996, joined the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
 The information distributed by the Government of Brazil indicates that deforestation of the Amazon forests irreplaceable, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, came to the 2.6 million hectares (nearly 26 000 square kms.) last year, taking the total deforested area of the Amazon 17%.
 The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer in perpetuity these areas protected.
 The leaders of business, governments and civil society organisations must play its role in order to achieve this vision.
 Our results offer a remarkably nuanced image of attitudes Saudis.
 A century later, the Japanese economic miracle, was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europe in a place of rapid technological progress, and industrial property.
 Today are fully aware that their vision post-colonial slightly wistful these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
 Perhaps they Asians to consider the European model as a political version of Venice -- a place to visit with nostalgia for his past glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
 The most important question is whether the US are divided irremediably.
 The closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate for change less than he seems to believe.
 Indeed, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and how fast.
 In Vietnam was a dramatic decline in poverty, while in Mexico real wages fell.
 All the opportunities that the market for the US gave Mexico were unable to counter the consequences of the mistakes of internal politics, especially the inability to reverse actual appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend to the rest of the economy improvements in productivity won over a limited range of export activities.
 There are many questions.
 Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acting on their own to organise and coordinate specific operations. Now feel that they have more freedom to do so.
 Moreover, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
 In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, could be expected that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by the republicans were careful when proposing new tax cuts.
 So it seems that mass budget deficits came to stay.
 Participation in the 2002 elections was only 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of the eligible voters.
 George W. Bush has done more to the ruin of the economic policy of America that no other President of the American history, overtaking even his mentor, Ronald Reagan.
 This argument is also wrong.
 In any case, it is a great mistake long-term base tax policies in the business cycle in the short term.
 The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking account of the increased tax costs of an aging population.
 Essentially, not only are doing predictions about the economy, but also on policies - and perhaps on the values culturales-que shape the strategies and the economic performance.
 When markets create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we will be better prepared to manage the risks posed by these cities and thus to stabilize their economies -- and our own lives.
 What news move markets?
 Undoubtedly, this was an important event which may affect the stock markets throughout the world.
 But this approach makes sense in intuition concerned.
 The movement towards a more consumption ethical also made significant progress in the United States, for consumers tilts increasingly to organic food and locally produced eggs are not locked hens in cages.
 Small farmers, for its part, they are required to be organised in cooperatives or other groups to democratic participation.
 Lindsey brink, the director of the Centre for studies trade policies of the promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign of coffee introduce fair trade labels is "a blind alley well intentioned."
 From the perspective of the growers, receiving a subsidy is preferable to sell a product introduce fair trade labels to receive a donation of charity which would in any case, working or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
 Of course, the common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
 Nor Florida or Arizona are States -- particularly progressive both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
 There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals -- and very few state legislation.
 On the whole, their appointments pose a direct challenge to the objective has Mr Karzai reunite the country.
 An eleventh has served as a pilot.
 The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets are the efficiency as if the managing an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
 Unfortunately, these programmes are university students who now devising policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that has been termed market fundamentalism.
 The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as they are not, as we want them.
 Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have finally woken up to the reality of the increasing dependence on the US; with the huge increase in oil prices, you will find it difficult not to draw the consequences.
 Never before the world had seen a of sustained growth; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
 Arise arguments focused on growth to oppose the existence of social policies and sound environmental: for example, it will be said that "if hauled gasoline taxes, this will mean suffocation of our nascent automotive industry."
 There is only one way to prevent that: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose fallacies and provide scope for creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
 The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy
 Only viewed pretend that the events and values alone; indeed, merely copiaban opinions and simplified toscas of the masses.
 If we want to train the citizenry informed and criticism that democracy needs, our schools must stop bowing to fashions temporary more recent and begin to improve your analytic abilities of students.
 This concern about mass media is not merely elitist contempt towards the popular culture.
 The result of this failure is a widespread indifference and a passivity of the public.
 It is too late to do something about a culture that erased both spirit?
 I believe that our future is as promising as a shining is the past in Europe, and that our fate is not to be a forgotten country a border region in problems, but a builder and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
 Already self-determination does not mean isolation, because we achieve national independence today means only return to the world stage with a new status.
 Part of the task of renew Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare in which fascism and communism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, fought for power.
 After the Kingdom's official accusations against Hezbollah, the Saudi state called their official Wahhabi clerics issuing fatwas condemning hazbolah as an organisation heretics and cismáticos Shia.
 Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
 But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of the famosamente irrational "Russian derzhava": an aggressive ethos glorifying the state and affirms its strength through the oppression of the weak.
 This is the key to understanding the recent crisis of Russian gas.
