The population increasingly old borders at home and more open than ever, involve a racial fragmentation in the European countries.
Some encourage affirmative action programmes which give priority to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to the College and the allocation of contracts.
Others are opposed to the affirmative action and to argue that a blind policy races, together with the policies of the free market and the values profamiliares, everything that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep to the black families.
The French taxpayers' money would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers in subsidies to keep a plant not profitable.
For decades, through republicanas administrations and democrats, America has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining global oil prices as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons in the way less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
The future of Iraq is directly dependent upon the fate of the country's oil production.
Before the invasion, production capacity of Iraqi oil alcanzaba the three million barrels per day.
This year was the question of Africa to the President, and became a nominar Libya.
Remember: Libya is a tyranny totalitarian; its leader, moammar kadafi erratic behaviour, combined with political extremists, and supports dictators throughout the world.
The doors to authoritarian
On the contrary, one of them was promoted for conducting the recently created (with funds from the US) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the most democratic community of Muslim history.
This means that for every murderer not executed three would die innocent victims.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of executing an innocent person.
This process has been strengthened and a great deal with the development of the identification based on the DNA.
Although these filters politicians are a complex matter in the post-communist societies, where both the victimisation and cooperation are so preferences and the boundaries between them are so borrosos, we could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will decide on the streets.
But too low a level can give the same result.
The government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenue is devoted to the payment of interest.
In December 1999, the European Council gave the status of Turkey to the EU miembro-candidato, involving that would accede to the Union and not at a future date specified.
Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua is threatened, and for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and growers of coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but what are his followers of authoritarian wishes?
The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, however, the French are painfully aware that the overall position of their country is not what it once was.
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that had finished with this aspect of the controversy to demonstrate that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
A "shock therapy 'style of Mrs.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of the solidarity static directed towards the people more solidarity on the dynamic that benefit young people.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity that has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
Once the opposition government gives the talks on the reform of the system of health or more recently on the combating of unemployment, competition is about underlying capacities, rather than on values.
However, below the battlefields common of political debate in England and Germany and elsewhere in Europe merodean shocks of values.
But the day will come when the global begin to raise interest rates, as the central bankers are preparing to resist the slow upward trend in inflation.
What will happen when the banks start to increase interest rates?
The international capital flows - including those who come to the eu-todavía are not at a level that is associated with the irrational exuberance "," but there is still time for this to happen before we begin to raise interest rates.
In addition, confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and have drawn the interest rates of the last vestiges of risk premiums inflation.
In these periods - particularly when the value of assets falls rapidly and sustancial-podemos realise exactly the ability of our central bankers to fulfil its main task: to reduce the volatility promote financial and economic stability.
Certainly the challenges that will face designers of economic policy in the world over the next few years will be different to those who took since the collapse of the bubble of NASDAQ.
In a word, not.
Even after the condemnations of the generals were powerful enough to ensure that ends the trials and then obtain the pardon the incoming President.
The policy of Argentina is still entangled in the legal consequences of those trials of 20 years ago.
The ICTY took effect in several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
During Saddam's regime were not efforts to raise the standards of living of the poor.
What can we do now? "
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq, which has allowed the people back insensitive to the fact of killing.
We also rehabilitate technocrats who worked on the government of Saddam so that they also have the opportunity to serve their country.
It is the most significant respect which derives from incubar ideas, which is evident from the previous discoveries of products.
Driven by an administration influenced by religion, the educational systems are changing its approach to the sciences' values'.
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are scarce and more difficult to obtain, which has reduced the flow of young talent to American universities.
Even if the United States be fought by an average age of fundamentalist, clearly run the risk of losing its predominance world in the field of research.
The central idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other nations controlaran "chain" of the military technology.
There is no reason why we should not be able to achieve the same result in the Middle East.
The pragmatic Iranian inevitably argue that Iran will have to cooperate with us, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
Sooner or later, argue, the US and the international community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
In short, the advocates of cooperation are calling for an open debate and explicitly: Iran's support of the Pact during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the permanent government that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position of regional and international Iran.
They believe that America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
The only question is how satisfacerlo.
Turkey, on the one hand, the Middle East, Morocco and on the other, are already well advanced.
These groups argue that, if the regime we are not proposing the rigged election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process should not be a problem.
The European Central Bank will be called upon to extend its monetary basis, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all the industrial, structural and demographic problems affecting Europe.
An epidemic of policy.
But almost everyone agrees that sciences are something else, and that, in the United States are becoming a sobering example for the rest of the world.
In its articles on one of the few remaining independent newspapers in Moscow, novaya gazeta, and in their books "Putin 's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a crisis in democracy) and "dirty war in Chechnya: Russian Reporter' (a dirty war: a federation reportera Politkovskaya wrote in Chechnya), on the disipación freedoms that is the identification marks of Putin's Presidency.
After all, as a journalist research enfureció many people also Putin, among which is nothing less than the current Prime Minister, Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy of extorsivos abductions.
The period of six years that Vladimir Putin came to the Kremlin has been a time of signals deeply opposed.
Gerhard Schroeder, who even less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that is building a gaseoducto, from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea, and from there to Western Europe.
To avoid Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic countries, of course, the new gaseoducto promises given greater influence in their pursuit of the Kremlin reposition themselves regionally.
In fact, it is deleitan with her: after to integrate and increase our common business of gas, write to the Russians, Europe editorialistas keep silent about human rights.
As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, they must recognise that these values are not shared by officials of the Kremlin calculadores Putin.
While luchábamos secrecy, the continuous gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
Many times we had recourse to the Court to force a disclosure of information, referring to the Freedom of Information Act 2001 of Romania.
Today, within the government, I am aware that the sharing of information to the public is often difficult.
When America adopted its law on freedom of information in 1996, joined the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
The information published without due regard for the government of Brazil indicates that the forests irreplaceable deforestation of the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, came to the 2.6 million hectares approve 26 (almost) kms. Square last year, taking the total area deforested Amazon to 17%.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also gave rise to the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund in perpetuity to administer these protected areas.
The leaders of the governments, businesses and organisations in civil society must play its role to make the vision.
Our results offer a remarkably nuanced Saudi image of attitudes.
A century later, the economic miracle Japanese was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europe in a place of rapid technological progress and industrial.
We are fully aware that his vision of post-colonial slightly nostálgica these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
Perhaps the Asian would consider the European model as a policy of Venice version - a place to visit with nostalgia for his glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
More important question is whether the US are hopelessly divided.
The result of the closed indicates that Bush won a mandate for change less than he seems to believe.
In fact, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and do so quickly.
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction in poverty in Mexico, while the real wage fell.
All the opportunities which the market gave us the Mexico were not able to counteract the consequences of the mistakes of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the appreciation of the real rate of the weight and extend the rest of the economy improvements in productivity reached in a limited range of activities of exports.
There are many questions.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acting on their own to organise and coordinate operations that are more specific now feel free to do so.
In addition, the programme supports Ahmadinejad openly Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, might be expected that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by republicans were cautious when proposing new tax cuts.
So it seems that budget deficits mass came to stay.
The turnout at the elections in 2002 was only 40% of whom only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of the eligible voters.
George W. Bush has done more to the ruin of the economic policy of the US that no other President of the American history, even going beyond its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
This argument is also wrong.
In any case, it is a great mistake to base the long-term fiscal policies in the business cycle in the short term.
The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets, taking into account the increase in tax costs of an ageing population.
Essentially, not only are making predictions about the economy, but also on the policies - and perhaps on the values culturales-que shape strategies and the economic performance.
When the markets believe an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we will be better able to manage the risks facing these cities and, therefore, to stabilize their economies, and our own lives.
What news moving markets?
Without doubt, this was an important event which may affect the stock markets throughout the world.
But this approach makes sense in what intuition concerned.
The movement towards a more ethical consumption made important progress in America, because consumers are in favour, increasingly, for organic food produced locally and eggs are not confined to hens in cages.
Small farmers, for its part, is required organised in cooperatives or other groups which enable the democratic participation.
Brink Lindsey, Director of the Centre for the study of trade policies promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign coffee Fairtrade "is a blind alley" show good will.
From the perspective of the growers, receive a bonus is preferable to sell a product Fairtrade receiving a donation of charity which would in any case, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
Of course, the common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
Nor are particularly progressive Florida or Arizona Member - both voted by George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals, and very few aid legislation.
On the whole, their appointments are a direct challenge to which Mr Karzai has the objective of reuniting the country.
The eleventh served as a pilot.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets are efficiency as if the manejara an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
Unfortunately, these programmes university students who are now designing policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that are termed the fundamentalism of the market.
The Sakharov Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy, as we are not as they are.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have finally woken up to the reality of the growing dependence on the USA; with the steep rise in oil prices, it will be difficult to bear the consequences.
Before the world had ever seen a case of sustained growth; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
There will be focused on growth arguments to oppose the existence of social policies and sound environmental: for example, it will be said that "if taxes are petrol, that will mean the stifling of our nascent automotive industry".
There is only one way to avoid: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose the fallacies that arise and to provide scope for creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy.
Only could pretend that juzgaban events and values alone; in fact, purely copiaban toscas simplified and the views of the masses.
If we want the public to be informed and criticism that democracy, needs our schools must cease to give in to the most recent modas temporary and start to improve capacities analytical estimates of students.
This concern about the mass media communication is not purely elitist contempt towards the popular culture.
The result of this failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
It is too late to do something about a culture which then both the spirit?
I believe that our future is promising as brilliant is the past in Europe, and that our destination is not to be a forgotten country in a border region problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
Self-determination already does not mean isolation, because the national independence achieve today means only return on the world stage with a new status.
Part of the task to renew Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare that fascism and communism ideologies, born in the heart of Europe, fought for the total power.
After the official United against accusations of Hezbollah, the Saudi state called their clerics Wahhabi official to give fatwas condemning hazbolah as an organisation of cismáticos Shia and heretical.
Clearly, this is what is at stake.
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of the famosamente irrational derzhava ":" a Russian ethos aggressive which glorifies the Member States and its strength through the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis Russian.
