Our rights declaration is the first of this millennium.
This applies both to Latvia and to the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and the present government the economy, at last, is giving real signs of improvement.
Must also apply, the European Community law is not only a law in the books but must also be in the candidate countries a law on the action.
The political vision remains the same.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process of the excellent speech by the President of the Prodi Commission.
The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language that it has been used within the European Union.
This task will not be easy, if we look at the lack of good will of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey.
We should not interfere in these achievements that we reached with so many efforts.
I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to the natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
In my own country, in order to have a scatter-gun need a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo of my garden.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions from uses and consumption on mineral oils does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
The money must be spent on the future of a more realistic way to the objectives and more efficient, and, of course, we must ensure better than the funds are used for the purposes for which have been disbursed by the budgetary authority.
I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote that will be, but the truth is that we must verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
With regard to the belief or the religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
With an average of three hours a day, it is the most important human activity after the dream and for adults, after the work.
Paciotti, and I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources for the withdrawal of mines.
Madam President, the Europeans would certainly very inspired if terms to the ball flight that we launched here the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
When it appears that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the action to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies only be delayed a few days' time.
On the other hand, the method used is more debatable.
On the one hand, in the course of the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain impotence as a result of certain merger decisions, particularly relating to cases where they have had to go to the Commission' s decision before the Court of First Instance.
The Commission has followed acting firm and especially against the cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
I would remind the honourable Member that the vote will take place later, at 12.30 noon.
Also, when the incoming candidate countries, each Member State must be able to maintain a deputy or main Commissioner.
On the one hand, the head of the Israeli Government' s decision to freeze the peace negotiations by the violence in the region and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of national unity with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
The debate is closed.
In the absence of this fundamental reference, in the best we understand each other, and in the worst, we slaughtered each other.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report by the European University Institute in Florence.
Unfortunately, the ultimate objective of a European constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
These are two issues often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between the two branches of the budgetary authority.
In spite of the fact that, as a member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of the committee and despite the great respect to the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I do not want to insist on two amendments that our committee is to present now before the House and which are still important but the figures have been reduced.
The political messages in this year' s budget are, as Commissioner Schreyer has already said - many, the restructuring of the agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of the structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
And I say so clear and unequivocal: Kostunica I must be given a chance, and I hope that in the next few weeks or months put in place an amnesty, but in the meantime I would like to political and budgetary level to political conditions to the implementation of these two new budget lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
The availability to the dialogue between all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary cooperation which will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
So far, since under the chairmanship of Delors set up an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long and fruitful way and who has chaired the Group I must express the deep appreciation of the European outermost regions.
Of course I will report to the President of your speech.
The reform of the European Union' s food laws will take place at the level of the European Union.
The EU must have the highest possible levels of food security for its citizens.
Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning signal of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities
Today is to prevent the flexibility of closer cooperation, and it is bound to lose, also in this case.
SMEs are the main source of employment, both in terms of its quality and its quantity. play an essential role in social cohesion and to town and country planning.
That is why I referred in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina has just to prove with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
The debate is closed.
We shall now move to the vote.
Well, I believe that these issues are at the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
(A5-0314/2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the area of the fight against organised crime, money laundering products infringements and financial crime C5-0394/2000.
All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
I hope that, even if today is limited to vote in favour of this Charter, this House will make it clear indubitablemente in the next few weeks which calls on the Council the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
The most important thing for me is that on the basis of Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey' s accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to the forces of the country and promote their development.
Recommendation Duff/Voggenhuber (A5-0325/2000)
Therefore, the Charter should not be to decide and to proclaim at the Nice Council, but that this summit to promote a European debate on it.
The role of Turkey in Cyprus is not acceptable.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici, which says that in order to make progress in the partnership between Turkey and the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication that d adopted on 4 October 2000 on the European Union' s oil supply, points out that wants to present at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources should help to strengthen the energy efficiency, especially in buildings and Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
(The sitting was suspended at 18.55 p.m. and resumed at 21.00 p.m.)
The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot' s report is, in my view, contrary to all reason in recent years, when with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform our agricultural policy.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the production companies, it would take no part in this system, preferring to systems that are already: individual savings bank loans, compensation fund.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, relating to issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom and it has to be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom are Socialists, popular or Greens have defended with great vehemence and have been approved in the Committee on the Environment, public health and consumer policy.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
The non-Community Mediterranean countries face, there is no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to the economic development, the regional inequalities acrecientan constantly.
The Union must do more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there are no detailed statistical data comparable in order to be able to say in a credible way what is in force in each country, which is, and where - what works better, what the weaknesses are, and so on, which is why, in fact, in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary policy, it stresses the need, before legislate Community rules on supplementary insurance disease, for the Commission to draw up a Green Paper which collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
Are also to make a public distribution system compatible with private capitalisation systems and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of specific investment funds can obtain tax benefits in the long term and that they can help to address the problem of ageing.
Frankly, I was disappointed that the statement yesterday by the Prime Minister Jospin had no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
In this area, I would like to say that the group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
This is an enormous amount.
I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, relocations, rural desertification, hyperconcentration urban, with speeches innovative and specific involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro in Yugoslavia by our own resources, by means of the genuine recognition of the principles of democracy.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to control the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.
I am delighted that Parliament has been able to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, the Commission' s position with regard to the public access to documents can be seen in the internal manual was sent on 11 October employees of the Commission to inform you of how to manage the applications of public access to documents presented by the Members of the European Parliament.
I believe that this has taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels has pointed out, this is a very important issue.
It is necessary, as a matter of urgent priority, go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
I do not have the reservations which has been able to express our colleague and friend, the chairman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, with regard to the issue of human rights.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time at the same time, however, I believe that there is no possible compromise to democracy and the question today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that which arises for example to Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is no democratic system.
The vote on the delay means postponing the request to the Commission.
I think it is odd that we want to now organisations to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time I ask a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that the economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach that has been giving these regulations on capital which strengthen the issues relating to the risk.
The starting point of this report is ombudsmann' s recommendation to the Commission, in relation to this, that will make it possible to candidates access to their examinations already remedied with regard to the selection procedure organised by the same.
This is the position defended by the rapporteur and the group of the European People' s Party shares.
It appears that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the School has a permanent seat.
Climate change have major consequences for the developing countries.
It is true that the text would have been better, and can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the result is that nobody renunciation of its plaything.
- (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay which we have been and also my obligations, I will try to these conclusions of the European Council, in accordance with the speech I had prepared.
Finally, I would like to express my group' s concern at the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do their utmost to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now at the entrance to the winter.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, take part in a political union with an undemocratic regime?
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 5 (42) of the Rules of procedure, to wind up this debate.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
In my view, in the world there is a structure which magazine a larger and fundamental importance: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, a whole continent; the most industrialised part of the world currently has been made clear in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
This again now, because it is a good framework in itself.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford to, on the other hand, to enter into discussions with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals put forward by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority if necessary.
I believe that in the case of the limit the responsibility of the classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, the Council and Parliament must return to reflect together on this.
It is clear to what extent the logic of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is opposed to a high degree of safety at sea.
Despite the fact that the amendment of the existing directive on control of vessels and the Watts report correspond to the real needs, are steps in a positive way, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
It would be a great success, since the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a rigid Europe, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe and close to the people, therefore based on respect for national democracies.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU has efficient institutions.
Just as serious is the pretence that a state which does not wish to take part in a mission will be forced to pay a financial contribution will the Member States participating in that war.
In the recent past, various scandals and failures concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
Recently in the United States have won trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.
It would be preferable to wait until we have dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
Would be more justified than summer-time money at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what is European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
Never, in the field of the Member States and in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
A new legal basis has been planned for the statute for European political parties and in the European Parliament should be given to it by the applicant status institutional laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
Let us then forget Nice, look at what is, I paid my hope with the great draft convention put forward by Belgium for your Presidency, because it is shown, there is a clean sheet, we need to change of method, we need to speed up the history: 2004 it is too late, is too far, it is too dangerous.
This maximum obliges the Commission to set priorities within a limited budget, as must the whole administration.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis by resorting to Article 272, the financial perspective has been maintained, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia proposes enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism for this.
Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
This directive is 1992.
Now, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to move forward.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
It is clear that the difficulties in Indonesia has not been resolved overnight.
We would like to see the Member States open up negotiations to have uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a federal public Prosecutor' s office community.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy way to overcome some of the difficulties.
In the European Parliament what we have to do is to regulate in a minimum at European level the major areas that lead to tensions in the procurement law, for example, presidency in the face of shareholders, major shareholders against small or companies from capital market.
Some amendments proposed by Parliament improve still further the text of the common position of the Council, as a result, its points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and that there is an urgent need for a more rapid transformation of the directive.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British postal service.
It sometimes seems as if the Commission, in the proposals deregulation in the trade and agricultural production at international level, outside even further than the Cairns Group.
During the 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always kept to this rule.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin decades, how can we give a minimum confidence in Mr Putin, executioner of the Chechen people, godfather of the various mafias, which insists on clear up all kinds of opposition, civil society (Trade unions, political parties), in order to strengthen his personal power?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing real teeth and collection capacity.
The Primarolo group has drawn up simple rules that is necessary to apply.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the area of maritime safety.
As a result of the criticisms made, particularly in Ireland and France, changed the extent and now the British Finance Minister has given a different turn: now is presented as a right of usage rate for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
Then, it is also took the view that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
There have been many those who have suggested that the budget is too small.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is vital the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society in the political decisions surrounding implementation
Mr President, the environment and public health are a complicated machine with a lot of functions to monitor and control in order to be able to speak and not be obstructed.
In addition, we object to the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to sell them.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, is as before.
But this Parliament fought for this reduction in the resources for innovative policies be compensated for using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the Roca.
The competence of the Community, even though some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of ports to carry out repair work in submarines, technical safety issues of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine is withdrawn to repair elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution we will be voting in the favour of course.
This is exactly the same treatment that we see in Western Europe and, in view of the protests, the Hikmet minister Mr al-Turk has postponed the transfer to the success of the political and social consensus on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for his excellent report.
We must not pay for certain products that there is no demand, and make them propaganda.
