The population increasingly old at home and borders more open than ever, involve a fragmentation racial in European countries.
Some encourage action programmes yes to give priority to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to school and the granting of public contracts.
Others are opposed to the affirmative action and argue that a policy blind to races, together with the policies of free market and values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create work for minorities and help maintain linked to the black families.
The money of the French taxpayer would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers in subsidies to keep alive a plant not lucrative.
For decades, through administrations democrats and republican, the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: to maintain world prices of oil as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons in the way less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
The future of Iraq is directly dependent upon the fate of the oil production in the country.
Before the invasion, production capacity Iraqi oil reached the three million barrels per day.
This year was the question of Africa to nominar the chairman, and were appointed to Libya.
Let us remember: Libya is a tyranny totalitarian; their leader, Moammar, Kadafi behaviour combines combines combines political extremists, and supports dictators throughout the world.
Authoritarian at the gates
On the contrary, one of them was increased to lead the newly established (with funds from the EU) anti-terrorist unit in Jakarta.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the most democratic community Muslim of history.
This means that for every murderer not executed would die out three innocent victims.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of execute a innocent.
And this process has been strengthened so much with the development of the identification based on the DNA.
Although these political filters are a complex issue in the post-communist societies, where both victimisation and cooperation are so generalised and the boundaries between them are so borrosos, could have been found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
But too low a level can provide the same result.
The government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their income tax engaged in the payment of interest.
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that would accede to the Union at a later date and not specified.
Democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is under threat for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
Evo Morales, leader of the opposition and growers coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but without its supporters of authoritarian wishes?
The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware that the overall stance of his country is no longer what ever was.
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that they had finished with this aspect of the controversy in showing that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
A "therapy shock" the style of Mrs
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards older people on solidarity dynamic that benefit young people.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity also means two things: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
Once the opposition offers the pláticas government on the reform of the system of health or more recently on combating unemployment, competition underlying is on capacities, rather than values.
However, below the battlefields common political debate in England and Germany and in other parts of Europe lurk shocks of values.
But the day will come when interest rates global start to rise, as the central bankers prepare to withstand the slow upward trend of inflation.
What will happen when the banks start to raise interest rates?
International capital movements -- without including the arriving in the EU-todavía are not the level that is associated with the "irrational exuberance" , but there is still time for this to happen before the rates of interest begin to rise.
Furthermore, confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and were drawn in interest rates the last vestiges of risk premiums inflationary.
In these periods, particularly when the value of assets falls quickly and sustancial-podemos realise exactly the skill of our central bankers to fulfil its core task: to reduce the volatility financial and to promote economic stability.
Certainly the challenges that will face designers economic policy of the world during the next few years will be different to those who have dealt with since the collapse of the bubble NASDAQ.
In a word, not.
Even after convictions, the generals were sufficiently powerful to ensure that ends trials and then obtain forgiveness from the incoming President.
The policy of Argentina is embroiled in the legal consequences of these judgments of 20 years ago.
The ICTY took effect in several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
During the regime of Saddam is not made efforts to raise the standard of living of the poor.
What can we do now? '
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq has meant that people becomes insensitive to kill.
Also, we can rehabilitate technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they too have the opportunity to serve their country.
It is most significant respect deriving from incubar ideas, that the resulting from products from previous discoveries.
Driven by an administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach to sciences to the "values" .
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are more limited and difficult to obtain, which has reduced the flow of young talent to the American universities.
Even if the United States will be waged a Middle Ages fundamentalist, clearly run the risk of losing their world dominance in the field of research.
The central idea was that the military power could be obsolete if other nations "ensure food chain" of military technology.
There is no reason why we could not achieve the same result in the Middle East.
The pragmatists Iranian argue that inevitably Iran must cooperate with US, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
Sooner or later, argue, the USA and the international community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
In short, the advocates of cooperation are calling for an open debate and explicit: support for Iran to stability during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government permanent that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position regional and international Iran.
They believe that the United States of America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
The only question is how satisfacerlo.
Turkey, on the one hand of the Middle East, Morocco and on the other, are quite advanced.
These groups argue that, if the regime does not intend rigging the election results, the presence of observers national and foreign of the electoral process must not be a problem.
There will be called the European Central Bank to extend its monetary basis, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all problems industrial, structural and demographic affecting Europe.
An epidemic policy
But almost everyone agrees that sciences are something else, and that, in the United States are becoming an instructive example to the rest of the world.
In its articles on one of the few independent newspapers remaining in Moscow, Novaya Gazeta, and in his book "Putin's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "dirty war: Russian reporter in Chechnya" (a dirty war: a reportera Russian in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote on the disipación freedoms which is marking identification of the presidency of Putin.
After all, as a journalist research enfureció many people and Putin, one of these is nothing less than the current Prime Minister Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy abductions of in
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came to Kremlin has been a time signs of.
Gerhard Schroeder, who until less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, be accepted chairman of the company that is building a gas pipeline from Russia, via the Baltic Sea to Germany, and from there to Western Europe.
To avoid Ukraine, Poland and, of course, the Baltic countries, the new gas pipeline promises given greater influence the Kremlin with a view to reposition themselves regionally.
In fact, are feasting themselves with her: after integrate and increase our business common gas, write the editorialistas Russians, Europe guardará silence on human rights.
As a former head of State of the Newly Independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
If Europeans take seriously their common area for human rights and freedom, must recognise that these values are not shared by officials calculating the Kremlin Putin.
While fighting, secrecy continuous led to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
Often we had to resort to the Court to force a disclosure of information, appealing to the freedom of Information Act of 2001 Romania.
Today, within the government, I am aware that the sharing of information with the public is sometimes difficult.
When the United States adopted its freedom of information Act in 1996, we accepted the exclusive company Sweden and Finland.
The information distributed by the Government of Brazil indicates that deforestation of forests irreplaceable the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion to agricultural land, came to the 2.6 million hectares (approximately 26,000 square kms.) last year, taking the area deforestada total Amazon to 17%.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer in perpetuity these areas protected.
The leaders of business, governments and civil society organisations must play its part in implementing this vision.
Our results offer image a a one of the Saudi attitudes.
A century later, the economic miracle Japanese had changed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europe in a place of rapid technological progress and industrial.
Today are fully aware that vision its its its nostalgic for these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
Perhaps the Asian would be to consider the European model as a policy version of Venice -- a place to visit with nostalgia for his former glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
A most important question is whether the EU are hopelessly divided.
The closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate for change less than he seems to believe.
In fact, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and what so quickly.
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction in poverty, whereas in Mexico real wages fell.
All the opportunities that the market of the EU gave Mexico were unable to counteract the consequences of the errors of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the real appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend the rest of the economy improvements in productivity won over a limited range of export activities.
There are many questions.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acted on its own to organise and coordinate specific operations, now feel that they have more freedom to do so.
Furthermore, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, could be hoped that the Bush Administration and Congress dominated by the republicans were cautious when it comes to proposing new tax reductions.
So it seems that budget deficits mass came to stay.
The turnout at the elections of 2002 was only 40% of whom only half supported Republicans, or nearly 20% of the voters admissible.
George W. Bush has done more to the ruin of the economic policy of US than any other Chairman of the US history, even going beyond its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
This argument is also wrong.
In any case, it is a great mistake to base the tax policies of long term in the trade cycle in the short term.
The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking account of the increase in the tax costs of an ageing population.
Essentially, not only are making predictions on the economy, but also on policies -- and perhaps most values the the shape to the strategies and the economic performance.
When markets create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we will be better prepared to control the risks facing these cities and thus to stabilize their economies -- and our own lives.
What news move markets?
Certainly, this was an important event which may affect the securities markets throughout the world.
But this approach makes sense in intuition concerned.
The move towards a more consumption ethical made significant progress also in the United States, since consumers are clear, increasingly, for organic food produced locally and eggs hens that are not locked up in cages.
Small farmers, for its part, are required to be organised in cooperatives or other groups to allow democratic participation.
Brink Lindsey, director of the centre for studies policies of promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign coffee fairtrade "is a blind alley well-meant" .
From the perspective of farmers, it is preferable to receive a bonus to sell a product fairtrade receive a gift of charity that would receive in any case, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
Of course, common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
Or Florida or Arizona states are are -- are both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals -- and very few national law.
On the whole, their appointments are a direct challenge to the goal which has Mr Karzai to reunite the country.
An eleventh served as pilot.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets are efficiency as if the manejara an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
Unfortunately, students from these programmes university they now devising policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas which has been termed market fundamentalism.
The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as they are not, as we want them to be.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have finally woken up to the reality of the growing dependence on the United States; with the steep rise in oil prices, you will find it difficult not felt the consequences.
Never before the world had seen a growth of sustained; never before has there been a level such poverty reduction.
It will be arguments focused on growth to oppose the existence of social policies and environmental sound: for example, some might say that "if rise taxes on petrol, this will mean suffocation of our nascent automotive industry" .
There is only one way of avoiding that: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose the fallacies and provide scope for arising creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy
Only could pretend that viewed as events and values alone; in fact, merely copiaban views the amendments the simplified bodies.
If we want to train citizenship informed and criticism that democracy needs, our schools must stop yield to fashion the The recent and start to improve the analytical capabilities of students.
This concern on the mass media communication is not purely elitist contempt towards popular culture.
The outcome of that failure is a widespread indifference and a passivity of the public.
Is it too late to do something about a culture which both cutting out the spirit?
I believe that our future is as promising as brilliant is Europe's past, and that our destination is not to be a forgotten country border region in a problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
Self-determination no longer means isolation, since achieve national independence today means only return to the world stage with a new status.
Part of the task to renew Ukraine is a battle creative in order to put an end to a century of nightmare that fascism and Communism ideologies, born in the heart of Europe, fought for the total power.
After the official allegations of the Kingdom Hizbulah against the state saudita convened its clerics Wahabis official to give fatuas condemning Hazbolah as an organisation of herejes and cismáticos Shiites.
Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden eruption of the famosamente irrational "derzhava" : a Russian ethos aggressive glorifying the state and affirms its strength through the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis Russian.
