The population increasingly old at home and borders more open than ever, entail a racial fragmentation in European countries.
Some favor affirmative action programs that give preference to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission of the College and the granting of public contracts.
Others oppose the affirmative action and argue that a policy blind to races, together with free market policies and values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and to help maintain United black families.
The French taxpayers' money would be better spent on benefits for temporary workers displaced persons that in subsidies to keep alive a plant not lucrative.
For decades, through Democrats Republican administrations and the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining world oil prices stable such as possible; reducing domestic consumption of oil in the less painful; reducing dependence on imports where possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
The future of Iraq depends directly on the fate of oil production in the country.
Before the invasion, the ability of Iraqi oil production was the three million barrels per day.
This year was the turn of Africa for the President, and became a nominar to Libya.
Remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyranny, its leader, Moammar kadafi erratic behaviors, combines with political extremists and supports the dictators throughout the world.
The authoritarian doors
On the contrary, one of them was risen to lead the recently created (with funds us) anti-terrorist unit in Jakarta.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the most democratic community of Muslim history.
This means that for every murderer not executed three would die innocent victims.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of executing a innocent.
And this process has been strengthened much with the development of identification based on DNA.
Although these filters politicians are a complex issue in post-communist societies, where both the victimization as the partnership are so widespread and limits between them are so borrosos, it could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
As in Ukraine, and Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon will decide on the streets.
But too low a level can give the same result.
Government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenue engaged in the payment of interest.
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of candidate member of the EU, involving accedería to the Union at a future date and not specified.
Democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries such as Mexico and Cuba, Nicaragua, and is threatened for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and the map of coca growers, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but does not his followers of authoritarian wishes?
The French State spends enormous amounts of money in the spread of its language and its culture, however, the French are painfully aware that the global position of their country is no longer what it was ever.
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that had finished with this aspect of the controversial to demonstrate that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
A "shock therapy" to the style by.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards the people on greater solidarity dynamic which benefit young people.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity, which also has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
When opposition offers Government talks on the reform of the system of health or more recently on the combating of unemployment, competition is about underlying capacities, rather than on values.
However, below the battlefields, common of political debate in England and Germany and elsewhere in Europe marauding clashes of values.
But the day will come when the that begin to global interest rates rise, as central bankers to prepare for resist the slow upward trend in inflation.
What will happen when the banks begin to raise interest rates?
International capital flows - to include those who come to us are not yet at the level which is associated with the "irrational exuberance", but there is still time for this to happen before they begin to raise interest rates.
Furthermore, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and have extracted interest rates over the last vestiges of risk premiums inflation.
In these periods - particularly when the value of assets of substantial falls rapidly and we can see exactly the skill of our central bankers to meet its main task: to reduce the volatility financial and to promote economic stability.
Certainly the challenges to face designers economic policy in the world in the coming years will be different to those who have encarado since the collapse of the bubble NASDAQ.
In a word, not.
Even after the sentences, the general were powerful enough to terminaran trials and after obtaining the pardon the incoming President.
The policy of Argentina enredada continues in legal consequences of these trials of 20 years ago.
The ICTY took effect in several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
During Saddam's regime is not made efforts to raise the living standards of the poor.
What can we do now?
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq made that people are again insensitive to the fact kill.
Similarly, we can rehabilitate the technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they also have the opportunity to serve their country.
It is more significant respect derived from incubar ideas, that the products from the previous discoveries.
Driven by a administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach of Sciences to the "values".
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are scarce and more difficult to obtain, which has decreased the flow of young talent to American universities.
Even if the United States are engaged in a fundamentalist Middle Ages, clearly the risk of losing its predominance world on research.
The idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other nations controlaran "the food chain of" military technologies.
There is no reason why the is not could obtain the same result in the Middle East.
The pragmatic Iranian argue that inevitably Iran will have to cooperate with us, at least to ensure the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
Sooner or later, argue, US and the international community will acknowledge the value of Iranian cooperation.
In short, the advocates of cooperation for a negotiation open and explicit: the support of Iran to stability in the current phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government permanent that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position of regional and international Iran.
Us believe that is determined to undermine the security of Iran and damage their national interests.
The only question is how satisfacerlo
Turkey, of one side of the Middle East, and the other, Morocco going quite advanced.
These groups argue that, if the regime is not proposes rig the election results, the presence of national foreign observers and the electoral process must not be a problem.
Will the so-called European Central Bank to its enlarged monetary basis, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all problems industrial, structural and demographic affecting Europe.
An epidemic policy
But almost everyone agrees that it sciences are another, and in this, the United States are becoming aleccionador an example to the rest of the world.
In its articles on one of the few remaining independent newspapers in Moscow, novaya gazeta and in his books "Putin 's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and the "dirty war in Chechnya, the Russian Reporter' (a dirty war: a Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote on disipación of freedoms that the marks of identification of Putin's presidency.
After all, a journalist research enfureció many people as well as between Putin, that is, no less, that the current Prime Minister, Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom it accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came the Kremlin has been a time of signals deeply opposing.
Gerhard Schroeder, who far less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that is building a gaseoducto, from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea, and from there to Western Europe.
To avoid Poland, Ukraine, and of course, the Baltic countries, the new gaseoducto promises give greater influence the Kremlin in its zeal of reposicionarse regionally.
In effect, be deleitan with it: After to integrate and increase our business common gas, write the Russians editorialistas, Europe guardará silence on human rights.
As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to endure these threats.
If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, must acknowledge that these values are not shared by the Kremlin officials calculadores of Putin.
While the secret, luchábamos continuous gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
Many times we had recourse to the Court to force a disclosure of information, appealing to the law of freedom of information for 2001 of Romania.
Today, within the government, I am aware that sharing information with the public sometimes difficult.
When America adopted its law of freedom of information in 1996, was the sumó exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
The information divulgada by the Government of Brazil indicates that deforestation of forests irreplaceable the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, reached the 2.6 million hectares (around 26 kms. square) last year, taking the total area deforestada Amazon to 17%.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated to associated with this initiative to create a trust fund in perpetuity to administer these areas protected.
The leaders of business, governments and organisations of civil society must play its role to make reality this vision.
Our results offer a picture of qualified surprisingly attitudes Saudis.
A century later, the Japanese economic miracle was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europeans a place of rapid technological progress and industrial.
Today they are fully aware of their vision post colonial slightly nostálgica of these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is falls.
Perhaps the Asian llegarían to consider the European model as a version policy of Venice -- a place to visit with nostalgia for his past glory and admiration for their quality of almost Museum.
The most important question is whether the EU are divided irremediably.
The closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate to change less than he seems to believe.
Indeed, the debate today, it is not about what to do but how and how fast.
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction of poverty, while in Mexico real wages fell.
All the opportunities that the market gave us Mexico could not to counteract the consequences of the mistakes of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the real appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend the rest of the economy improvements in productivity reached at a limited range of activities of export.
There are questions.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acted on their own to order and coordinate specific operations now feel that they have more freedom to do so.
Furthermore, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, could be hope that the Bush Administration and the Congress dominated by Republicans were cautious when it comes to proposing new tax cuts.
It is that it seems that budget deficits mass came to stay.
Participation in the elections of 2002 was only 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or 20% of eligible voters.
George W. Bush has contributed most to the ruin of economic policy for us that any other President of history, even the American overcoming mentor, Ronald Reagan.
This argument is wrong
In any case, it is a great mistake the tax base policies of long term in the trade cycle of short term.
The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking into account the increase in tax costs of an aging population.
Essentially, not only are being predictions on economics, but also on policies - perhaps on cultural values which give way to the strategies and performance.
When the markets believe international consensus on the future price of housing in cities around the world, we will be better prepared to control the risks we face these cities and thus to stabilize their economies -- our own lives.
What is news move markets?
Undoubtedly, this was an important fact that possibly affected the stock markets throughout the world.
But this approach makes sense in the intuition concerned.
The movement towards a more consumption ethical made significant progress in the United States, as consumers are inclinan, increasingly, organic food produced locally and eggs from hens that are not locked in cages.
The small farmers, for its part, they are required to organize cooperatives or other groups to allow democratic participation.
Lindsey brink, director of the centre for studies of trade policies of promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign coffee Fairtrade 'is a blind alley good ".
From the perspective of growers, receiving a subsidy is preferable to sell a product Fairtrade which receive a donation of charity which receive anyway, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
Of course, common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
Neither Florida or Arizona States are particularly progressive - both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
There is no federal legislation on animal welfare of farm -- very few State laws.
As a whole, their appointments pose a challenge to direct objective that has he Karzai to reunite the country.
A eleventh served as pilot.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets are efficiency as if by an invisible hand manejara) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
Unfortunately, these programmes are university students who now designed policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that has been called fundamentalism in the market.
The Nobel prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as are, not as they wish.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have awakened finally to the reality of the growing dependence on us, with the large increase in oil prices, it will be difficult to note the consequences.
The world had never before seen so of sustained growth; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
Arguments will be focused on growth to oppose the existence of social and environmental policies sound: for example, they say that 'if suben taxes for petrol, this will mean the nascent automotriz suffocation of our industry.
There is one way to avoid: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose the fallacies arising and give space for creative solutions to the many challenges facing that China today.
The lessons of Tocqueville Democracy
That could only aparentar juzgaban events and values alone; in fact, merely copiaban toscas opinions and simplified the masses.
If you want to be informed and citizenship criticism that democracy needs, our schools must always be the most recent pasajeras fashions and start to improve analytical capabilities of students.
This concern on the means of mass communication is not mere elitist contempt towards popular culture.
The outcome of this failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
Is it too late to do something about a culture that apaga both the spirit?
I believe that our future is as promising as brilliant is the past in Europe, and that our destiny is not to be a forgotten country a border region in problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
The self-determination no longer mean isolation, since to achieve national independence nowadays means only return to world stage with a new status.
The task of renew Ukraine is a creative battle to end a century of nightmare that fascism and communism, ideologies nacidas in the heart of Europe, fought for total power.
After official UK accusations against Hezbollah, the state Arabia called their official Wahabis clerics to issuing fatwas to condemn hazbolah as an organisation of heretics and cismáticos Shia.
Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to sudden eruption of famosamente irrational "derzhava" Russian: an aggressive ethos that says glorifies the state and its strength through the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis Russian.
