 Our declaraciÃ rights is the first of this Millennium.  
 This applies both to Latvia as to the European Union.  
 Poverty has been keen to a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and with the current government of the economy, at last, giving real signs of improvement.  
 Have also apply to the European Community law is not a law in the books, but that has to be in the applicant countries a law in action.  
 The political remains the same.  
 Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to work until the end to the European Union for the process of enlargement in the sense of the magnÃ specific intervenciÃ from the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.  
 The importance and the extent of the problems raised by the Commission are incompatible with the double language which she has been used within the European Union.  
 This task will not be, if we consider the lack of willingness of the Turkish part of Cyprus and Turkey.  
 We should not interfere in these achievements that we reached with many efforts.  
 I cannot accept the references to the Parliament on amendments Nos 21 and 34 on the people of that country and sicas presumed dicas, as well as to the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.  
 In my own country, to have a escopeta necesitarÃ relates to a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo of my jardÃ represents.  
 Thank you, but Commissioner.  
 Finally, the fijaciÃ a high level of taxation of customs and excise on mineral oils does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.  
 The money must be spent on the future of way close to the objectives and effective, and of course also must ensure that the funds are used for the purposes for which it was intended to the budgetary authority.  
 Desearã that that does not change the meaning of the vote which was expresarÃ system, but the truth is that we need to check the traducciÃ from the French.  
 Signs now President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.  
 Regarding the belief or the, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area mbito.  
 With an average of three hours a day, it is the human activity important after the dream and, for adults, after the work.  
 Other. I can assure you that today, in the same preguntarÃ Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources allocated to the clearance of mines.  
 The Europeans, Madam President, it would, without doubt very inspired if we could take up the flying the ball that we lanzÃ debate here the President of the Palestinian legislative Council.  
 As it seems that people have fled the country and that the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that the actions to establish an association and a normal relationship between Serbia and this democracies should only be delayed for a few days.  
 Instead, the method used seems debatable.  
 On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests of companies which have a certain sense of powerlessness to root of certain decisions on mergers, above all connected with cases where we have had need to appeal to the Commission before the Court of first instance.  
 The Commission has continued to acting firm and especially against the system to rteles and the abuse of a dominant position.  
 I recall to its orÃ signs that the Commission is celebrarÃ system, at 12.30 p.m.  
 Thus, when the applicant States accede, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or official assistant.  
 On the one hand, the head of the government of Israel to freeze the peace negotiations by the violence in the area and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentraciÃ with the leader of the opposition, Mr.  
 The debate is closed.  
 In the absence of this reference to fundamental, at best, we fail to understand each other, and in the worst, we slaughtered each other.  
 I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here -, to discuss the report of the Institute of Florence.  
 Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.  
 These are two subjects are often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and which could give guideline, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.  
 Despite the fact that, as a Member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this Commission and despite the great respect that I in the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on economic and monetary Affairs I should like to insist on two amendments that our commitment to re-use and now before the plenary and that still persist even have reduced the figures.  
 The messages in the budget for this year are - as the Commissioner has said but schreyer- many of the common agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure a better ejecuciÃ the structural policy, following the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit and to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.  
 And I say so clear and: is the need to give an opportunity, and I hope that in the coming weeks or months to put in place a amnistÃ, but in the meantime, do want to level and procedure was to put conditions on the ejecuciÃ these two new budget, that is to say, the and the.  
 The availability in dialogue of all the institutions involved has given rise to a colaboraciÃ exemplary cooperation that we will, I hope, to arrive at a consensus at first reading.  
 Even today, since that under the Presidency and the setting-up of an inter-service Group for the ultraperifÃ peripheral regions, we have travelled a long and fructÃ represents fero path and who has presided that Group I must express the deep gratitude of the Europeans ultraperifÃ the wealthy.  
 Naturally informarÃ, to the President of his.  
 The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be conducted at the level of the European Union.  
 The EU must count on the levels of higher possible of food security for its citizens.  
 Two kilometres of a village of Bosnia, in 1999, in a field of a warning of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.  
 The distribution of competences and responsibilities  
 Today seeks to prevent the flexibilizaciÃ of closer cooperation, and acabarÃ by starting to lose the, in this case.  
 Smes are the main source of employment creation, in both quality and quantity. desempeÃ designed a pivotal role for the Commission and for the ordenaciÃ's territory.  
 To that I was in the report about the SLIM project, because the Community, and the signs the commitment we have just tested with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, is understandable, including for the experts.  
 The debate is closed.  
 Is procederÃ now to the Commission.  
 Well, I believe that these issues are at the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular the freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.  
 (A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, in particular in the fight against organised crime, the laundering of the products of infringements and crime in financial terms (10213 / 2000 - C5-0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).  
 All these considerations they contained in the amendments and, to judge by the debate held in the Commission, I trust that Parliament fully in the aprobarÃ; these amendments.  
 I trust that, even today, to give their approval to this letter, this House are going to leave indubitablemente clear in the weeks that calls on the Council to the letter and that this also includes the possibility of recourse to the European Court of justice.  
 What is more important is that on the basis of who has been initiated in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for the adhesiÃ accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to the reformadoras forces of the country and its further development.  
 Recommendation Duff / Voggenhuber (A5-0325 / 2000)  
 Therefore, the Charter should not be to decide and proclaimed at the Nice Council, rather than in this Summit should be to promote a European debate on the same.  
 Nor is it acceptable to the role of Turkey in Cyprus.  
 President-in-office of the Council, Mr moscovici- that right to proceed in the economy with the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the issue of Cyprus?  
 On the other hand, the Commission, in which the Commission approved on 4 October 2000 on the supply of oil from the European Union, points which wants to submit, at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan of saving power, and diversificaciÃ from sources that worsen--could to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of political power, particularly in the buildings and tourism.  
 (the session was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)  
 The extra support Community raised in the report by Mr Garot is, to my mind, contrary to all sanity in these years, when the agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we need to reform our common agricultural policy.  
 On the one hand, the producers important, or those who are integrated with the firms of production, not participarÃ in this mechanism, preferring the systems that already have: individual savings, the stamos banking, in-depth.  
 Some of the amendments, such as amendments Nos 1 and 18, which have to do with issues that ataÃ into fundamentally in the United Kingdom, and I have to say that all of the groups of the United Kingdom, are Socialists, Greens, the popular or have defended with great vehemence and have been approved in the Committee on the environment.  
 I believe that there is no conflict between amendment no 12 and amendment no 37.  
 The countries outside the Community face, there is no doubt, particularly serious problems linked to economic development. regional inequalities are acrecientan endlessly.  
 The Union must make proposals and to consider the enlargement as a strategy of geopolitical indispensable.  
 There is, however, large differences between the various countries of the Union, and there is a lack of data estadÃ much detailed sticos comparable in order to be able to see what is it credible way, which is in force in each country, is - and the other nde- what works best, what are the points of biles, etcÃ, or by the Commission, precisely, in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the policy of economic and monetary Union, it highlights the need to legislate, before the Community rules on the supplementary insurance schemes of disease, that the Commission draw up a Green Paper which collect and sistematice all of these data now dispersed and all the information on this.  
 Going in the sense of do with a system of public deal with private systems of capitalizaciÃ and, of course, are compatible with backing for the investment Fund that can get tax advantages in the long term and that can help to deal with the problem of ageing.  
 Frankly, I decepcionÃ than in the statement made yesterday that Prime Minister Jospin had not ningÃºn recognition of the role so positive that has the Community over the last few years.  
 In this matter, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be approved.  
 This is a huge number.  
 I agree on the need for a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, transfers of undertakings, desertizaciÃ cooperation, on the Commission hiperconcentraciÃ urban, innovative and concrete actions that a company in the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.  
 It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a problem.  
 On the other hand, we gustarÃ producers to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro in Yugoslavia by our own media, the recognition of the autÃ, nticos principles of democracy.  
 Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables the citizens of control to the other rganos of government of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.  
 I welcome the fact that Parliament has managed to create a broad majority in favour of greater openness.  
 Signs now President, the position of the Commission with regard to public access to the documents can be seen in the internal manual, which was referred to the 11 October to the employees of the Commission to inform you of how we are to handle applications for access to the documents presented by the Members of the European Parliament.  
 I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.  
 The reason why sugerirÃ that aplazÃ; we want the signs is that - as has alado Mr Goebbels - this is a very important issue.  
 It is necessary and urgent to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.  
 I have the reservations that have been able to express our company Ero and dear friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, with regard to the issue of human rights.  
 Some believe that the importance of democracy is when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which is to be given time at the time, but I do not think there is any possible compromise with the democracy and the issue that is raised today for the ivory coast is the same as that which was raised for example to Guinea, when we know that there are people currently in prisiÃ and that there is a system.  
 The Commission on its postergaciÃ Commission means put the request to the Commission.  
 It seems to me odd that will now maniatar to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but that at the same time I ask a Green Paper on the current State of the voluntary associations and the safe for dicos complementary.  
 Indeed this first comment, I gustarÃ relates to alar signs that I believe that the operators will also consider satisfactory the approach that has been given to these regulations on the capital which tighten up the issues concerned are at risk.  
 The starting point of this report is the recommendation of the ombudsmann to the Commission, in cooperation with the former, which make it possible for the candidates to have access to their structural menes already corrected regarding the procedure organised by the same.  
 This is the common position also championed by the rapporteur and that of the European people's Party shares.  
 It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far it considers that it is essential that the school has a permanent headquarters.  
 The changes have major consequences in the developing countries.  
 It is true that its text was able to be better, and will be improved and put forward after Nice.  
 This is the situation in which we have enfrascado for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and cause in which nobody giving their toys.  
 - (FR) four President, bearing in mind the delay which take and also my duties, tratarÃ, to shorten the that had been drawn up.  
 Finally, I would like to express the concern of my Group for the worsening situation in Afghanistan and to urge the Commission and the Council so that we can do in order to reach a solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of the winter.  
 Who wishes to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a policy with a not democratically?  
 I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Article 42 (5) of the rules of procedure, to wind up this debate.  
 Signs now President, first of all, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for the good work he has done.  
 From my point of view, in the world there is a framework which magazine a larger and fundamental: the fifteen Member States and in the future of twenty or more, an entire continent; the part of the globe currently most industrialised late in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.  
 We come back to this now, since it provides a good framework in itself.  
 From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, this could afford, on the other hand, to discuss with the Member States an agreement on funciÃ the proposals tabled by you, and to adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority, if necessary.  
 I believe that in the case of Lebanon mite of the responsibility of the societies of clasificaciÃ, irrespective of what is decided today, it is important that the Council and Parliament are returning to reflect together on this.  
 It is clear to what extent the opinion of the Liberal gica objects, in fact, to a high degree of safety, legitimate.  
 Despite the fact that neither the proposal amending the existing directive on the control of ships or the report and respond to the real needs, as certain passages in the positive sense, and for that reason the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece have voted in favour of the report.  
 It would be rather a great success, for the Europe that we need, in speras victims, is not a Europe of much gida, jerarquizada, further, but a flexible Europe, and closer to the people, by both based on respect for the national democracies.  
 The task of Nice is to ensure that the EU should have efficient institutions.  
 Equally serious is the pretensiÃ that a State which does not wish to participate in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution that repartirÃ the participating States in that war.  
 In the recent past, different skeptical system ndalos and malfunctions concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.  
 Whatever we do, we will vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.  
 Recently in the United States have gained judgments against the tobacco multinationals by poisoning and lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.  
 It would be better to wait until he has addressed the issue of the additives in its entirety in the first report of the Commission.  
 It would be more appropriate for the time and terminase at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.  
 I would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his effort to reconcile the opposing positions.  
 Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the rroga of the existing European programmes in the health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what sense of stability of European policy in the field of health.  
 I understand that the Council has given its consent in principle.  
 Jamã, in the Member States or in the Community, we must abandon the principle that I sico that individuals should always bear the responsibility for their actions.  
 Has provided a basis for the new status of the political parties and the European Parliament are accorded the status of complainant institutional provided in Article 230 of the Treaty.  
 So, Let us not forget Nice, fijÃ, monkeys in what comes after, and permÃ do you tanme sparking off my hope that with the project of great agreement forward by Belgium for its Presidency, because it is established, we must make borrÃ and we need new, there needs to be a change of method, we must speed up the story: because it is too late, too far, it is too dangerous.  
 This meeting will force the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, we should make all.  
 That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis through recourse to Article 272; we have maintained the financial perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.  
 In the field of, the strategy for Russia proposes to engage in a dialogue on on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism for it.  
 Do you have the support of this project, but Commissioner Patten?  
 This directive is of 1992.  
 However, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are also very concienciadas and that will continue.  
 Signs now President, but Commissioner, orÃ powers, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen for the excellent work that has been carried out.  
 It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia would not do night in the morning.  
 We gustarÃ relates to the Member States to open up negotiations with a view to having a matter of line legislation in the field of criminal law, however, we do not want to submit our countries to a fiscalÃ relates to Community requires.  
 It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties that exist.  
 In the European Parliament, what we must do is to regulate a form of nima much more in the field of the European powers which cause tensions in the right of acquisitions, for example, have opposed to shareholders, large shareholders in the face of small children or firms facing capital market.  
 Some of the amendments proposed by Parliament is to improve the text of the common position of the Council, your points. due to it to focus on issues that could give rise to difficulties in the interpretation and that one ’ s accession to the transformaciÃ from the directive.  
 I would point out to my colleagues of the Conservatives or in which ran into the United Kingdom when it tried to privatise the postal service britÃ.  
 Sometimes seems as if the Commission, in the proposals of desreglamentaciÃ in trade and agricultural policy at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.  
 During the for 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always adhered to this rule.  
 If it is right to condemn the dictatorship of Stalin of will, how can grant a much more nima confidence in signs now Putin, torturer of the Chechen people, something of the various mafias, that empeÃ company to settle all kinds of, the civil society (unions, parties), to strengthen his personal power?  
 Yet President, ladies orÃ companies, the tax systems of the Union are losing edge and ability to recaudaciÃ.  
 The Primarolo Group has drawn up a simpler rules that it is necessary to apply.  
 Signs now President, I thank the Commissioner for his continuing commitment to the safety of the legitimate.  
 At root the received, particularly in Ireland and France, the measure and now the Minister of finance britÃ system nico has given you a draft differently: now arises as a right of use for everyone, including the drivers of lorries.  
 Food additives other than colours and sweeteners  
 Then, also comprobÃ that the Commission carecÃ relates to the instruments necessary to act appropriately.  
 There have been many of those who have suggested that the budget is too small.  
 For, if we want the principle of caution is effective and, is fundamental to the participation of all the interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in the decisions that surrounding its aplicaciÃ Commission  
 Signs now President, the environment and public health are as one with a quina complicated, of functions that monitoring and control in order to be able to intervene and thus not estropee.  
 Furthermore, we oppose the sobreproducciÃ of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to be sold.  
 On the really important issues as taxes, taxes, social policy, asylum and emigraciÃ, everything is as before.  
 But this Parliament luchÃ legislation for which this reduction of the resources for the year were compensated for using the flexibility instrument laid down in a of the budget.  
 All we need to do is to win the confidence of the people living in the bedrock.  
 The competence of the Community, that some people wish to another thing, does not cover the clasificaciÃ the ports to carry out work of repair in submarines, or matters of safety of nuclear reactors or technical requirements for a submarine is withdrawn for its repair in another place.  
 Yet President, ladies orÃ powers, I would like to speak about the debate on which, of course, vote in favour of.  
 This is exactly the same treatment that we see in Western Europe and, from the protests, the Minister and the Minister has postponed the transfer to get a consensus and opinion on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.  
 First of all, I want to congratulate Mr Dary, for her excellent report.  
 We should not have to pay for certain products which are not demand, or make propaganda.  
