The more and more old population in house and the abiertas borders more than ever, imply a racial fragmentation in the European countries.
Some favor programs of affirmative action that give preference to the minorities for the allocation of works, the admission to the school and the contract granting public.
Others are against the affirmative action and argue that a political blind person to the races, along with the policies of free market and the profamiliar values, is everything what makes lack to create works them minorities and to help to maintain the black families united.
The money of the French contributors would be better employee in temporary benefits for the displaced workers whom in subsidies to maintain a nonlucrative plant lives.
During decades, through democratic and republican administrations, the United States has looked for a series of clear objectives of political energetics: to maintain as stable the prices world-wide of petroleum as is possible; to reduce hydrocarbon the internal consumption of the less painful way; to reduce the dependency of the imports whenever it is possible; and to diversify the imported petroleum sources.
The future on Iraq it depends directly on the destiny of the oil production of the country.
Before the invasion, the capacity of Iraqian oil production reached the three million daily barrels.
This year was the turn of Africa to name the president, and named to Libya.
We remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyranny; his leader, Moammar Kadafi, combine erratic behaviors with extremist policies, and support dictators anywhere in the world.
Authoritarian to the doors
On the contrary, one of them was promoted to direct recently created (with bottoms of the EU) Antiterrorist Unit of Yakarta.
From the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third greater democratic country of the world and the greater Muslim democratic community of history.
This implies that by each executed assassin three innocent victims would not die.
By all means the risk worries to me of executing an innocent.
And this process has reinforced much with the development of the identification based on the Mrs.
Although these political filters are a complex subject in the poscomunistas societies, where as much the victimización as the collaboration so is generalized and the limits among them are so blurred, could have been found a good solution, like in the Czech Republic.
Like in the Ukraine, the Lebanon and Kirguistán, will be decided in the streets.
But a level too much under can give the same result.
The governmental debt of India is of more of 70% of the GIP, so that more than half of his fiscal income they are dedicated to the payment of interests.
In December of 1999, the European Council gave to Turkey estatus from member-candidate to the EU, implying that he would accede to the Union in a future and not specified date.
The democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries like Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and it is threatened for a reason or another one in Venezuela and Colombia.
Evo Morales, leader of the opposition and the cultivators of cocaine leaf, can be an honest, although disoriented democratic leader, but lack their followers authoritarian desires?
The French State spends enormous amounts of money in the propagation of its language and its culture, and nevertheless, the French are painfully conscious that the global position of its country no longer is what sometimes was.
The OECD and EUROSTAT, the European organ in charge of that data type, thought that they had ended that aspect of the controversy when demonstrating that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have the same standards of life approximately per capita.
A “therapy of shock” in the style of the Mrs
One of the majors challenges for the future of the EU is to approach the superiority of directed static solidarity towards greater people on the dynamic solidarity that benefits the young people.
The subsidiarity is similar to the concept of the solidarity in which also it has two interpretations: the vertical subsidiarity and the horizontal subsidiarity.
It includes the relations between the State, the society and the market.
When the opposition offers to the government talks more recently on the reform of the health system or on the combat to unemployment, the underlying competition is on capacities, more than on values.
Nevertheless, below the battlefields common of the political debate in England and Germany and other places of Europe the shocks of values roam.
But the day will arrive in which the world-wide interest rates begin to raise, as the central bankers prepare themselves to resist the slow tendency to the rise of the inflation.
What will happen when the banks begin to lift the interest rates?
The international flows of capital - without including those that arrive at the USA-still they are not at the level that is associated with the “irrational exuberance”, but still is time so that happens before the interest rates begin to raise.
In addition, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and the last vestiges of the premiums of inflationary risk have been extracted of the interest rates.
In those periods - particularly when the value of the assets falls of fast way and substantial-we can realize ability exactly of our central bankers to fulfill its main work: to reduce financial volatileness and to promote the economic stability.
Certainly the challenges to that the designers of economic policy of the world will face during the next years will be different from which has faced from the collapse of the bubble of NASDAQ.
In a word, no.
Even after the sentences, the generals were sufficiently powerful to manage that the judgments finished and later to obtain the pardon of the incoming president.
The policy of Argentina follows romped in the legal consequences of those judgments of 20 years ago.
The ICTY made indeed several original decisions under the leadership from Antonio Cassese.
During the regime of Saddam efforts were not made to elevate the standards of life of the poor men.
What we can do now? “
The poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq that has caused that people become insensible to the fact to kill.
Also, we can rehabilitate the technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they also have the opportunity to serve their country.
The respect is more significant than it is derived to incubate ideas, that the one that is come off products of previous discoveries.
Impelled by an administration influenced by the religion, the educative systems are changing their approach of sciences to the “values”.
From the terrorist attacks of September of 2001, the visas are littler and difficult to obtain, which is handicapped the flow of young talent to the American universities.
If the United States even gets rid of a fundamentalist average age, clearly they run the risk of losing his world-wide predominance in the matter of investigation.
The central idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other nations controlled the “nutritional chain” of the military technologies.
There is no reason for which the same result in the Middle East could not be obtained.
Pragmatic the Iranians argue that inevitably Iran will have to cooperate with the USA, at least to assure the rights the Shiite Iraqian population.
Sooner or later, they argue, the USA and the international community they will recognize the value of the Iranian cooperation.
To sum up, those in favor of the cooperation request an open and explicit negotiation: the support from Iran to the stability during the present phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment with maintaining relations of cooperation with the permanent government who arises in Iraq, anyone is their sign, in exchange for an improvement of the regional and international position of Iran.
They think that the USA is determined to mine the security of Iran and to damage their national interests.
The unique question is how to satisfy it.
Turkey, of a side of the Middle East, and Morocco of the other, already go quite advanced.
These groups maintain that, if the regime does not set out to fix the electoral results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process does not have to be a problem.
It will have called to structural and demographic the European Central bank so that it extends its base monetary, as if to imitate to the dollar the answer to all the industrial problems went, that affect Europe.
A policy epidemic
But almost everybody agrees in which sciences are another thing, and this, the United States is becoming an instructive example for the rest of the world.
In its articles for one of the few independent newspapers that are in Moscow, Novaya Gazeta, and in their books “Putin's Russia: Life in a Failing Democracy” (Russia de Putin: The life in a democracy in crisis) and “To Dirty War: To Russian Reporter in Chechnya” (a dirty war: A Russian reporter in Chechenia), Politkovskaya wrote on the dissipation of the liberties that is the mark of identification of the presidency of Putin.
After all, as investigation journalist infuriated to many people besides Putin, between which she is, nothing less, than present checheno prime minister, Ramzan Kadyrov, to that she accused to implement a policy of extorsivos kidnappings.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin arrived at the Kremlin has been a time of deeply opposed signals.
Gerhard Schroeder, who until less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, accepted to be president of the company that is constructing a pipeline from Russia, through the Baltic Sea to Germany, and from there to Western Europe.
When avoiding the Ukraine, Poland, and by all means, the Baltic countries, the new pipeline promises to give major influences to the Kremlin in its eagerness to replace itself regionally.
Indeed, they delight with her: after we integrate and we increase our business common of gas, the Russian editorialistas write, Europe will keep silence on the human rights.
Like ex- Chief of State of just independent Lithuania, frequently I had to support those threats.
If the European seriously take their common space for the human rights and the freedom, must recognize that those values are not shared by the calculating civil servants of the Kremlin de Putin.
While we fought, the continuous secret gave rise to a corruption explosion and abuse authority.
Often we had to resort to the court to force a revelation of information, appealing to the Law of Freedom of Information of 2001 of Rumania.
Nowadays, within the government, I am conscious that sharing information with the public sometimes it is difficult.
When the United States adopted their Law of Freedom of Information in 1996, it was added to the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
The information disclosed by the government of Brazil indicates that the deforestation of the irreplaceable forests of the Amazon, due to factors like the conversion to agricultural earth, reached the 2.6 million hectares (near 26,000 km. squared) the last year, taking the deforested area total from the Amazon to a 17%.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated to the associates to this initiative to create a fiduciary fund to administer to perpetuity these protected areas.
The leaders of businesses, the governments and the organizations of the civil society must play their role to make reality this vision.
Our results surprising offer a clarified image of the saudíes attitudes.
A century later, the Japanese economic miracle had transformed the image of at least a small part from Asia to the European eyes into a place of fast technological and industrial progress.
Today they are totally conscious that his slightly nostalgic post-colonial vision of these countries as great markets of export and deep reservorios of cheap manpower are expired.
Perhaps the Asians would get to consider the European model like a political version of Venice -- a place to almost visit with nostalgia by its glory past and admiration by its quality of museum.
One more a more important question is if the EU is divided irremediably.
The closed thing of the result indicates that Bush gained a mandate for the change smaller than he seems to believe.
Indeed, the debate nowadays is not envelope what to do but how much to make and what so fast.
In Vietnam a dramatic diminution of the poverty occurred, whereas in Mexico the real wages fell.
All the opportunities that the market of the EU gave Mexico could not resist the consequences of the errors of political intern, mainly the incapacity to revert the real appreciation of the type of change of the weight and to extend to the rest of the economy the improvements in the productivity reached in a limited range of export activities.
There are many questions.
Sometimes certain Iranian civil servants can have acted by their account when ordering and to coordinate specific operations. Now they will feel that they have more freedom to do it.
In addition, Ahmadinejad supports the program of Iran abiertamente to obtain nuclear weapons.
In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shade of a war in Iraq, it would be possible to be hoped that the Administration Bush and the Congress dominated by the republicans would be cautious at the time of proposing new reductions of taxes.
Thus it is that it seems that the massive budgetary deficits arrived to remain.
The participation in the elections of 2002 was of only a 40%, of which only half supported the republicans, or near 20% of the permissible voters.
George W. Bush has contributed more to the ruin of the economic policy of the USA that no other president of American history, even surpassing its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
This argument also is mistaken.
In any case, it is a great error basing tax policies of long term on the commercial cycle of short term.
The second lesson is that the countries would have to plan their budgets taking into account the increase of the fiscal costs of a population that ages.
Essentially, not only predictions are becoming on economy, but also on the policies - and perhaps on the values cultural-that give form to the strategies and to the economic performance.
When the markets anywhere in the world create an international consensus on the future price of the house in cities, we will be better preparations to control the risks that face these cities and, thus, of stabilizing its economies -- and our own lives.
What the news move the markets?
Without a doubt, this one was an important fact that possibly it affected the stock markets anywhere in the world.
But this approach has sense in which to intuition respecta.
The movement towards a more ethical consumption also made important advances in the United States, since the consumers incline, more and more, by organic foods locally produced and eggs of hens that are not locked up in cages.
To the small agriculturists, on the other hand, it is demanded to them to organize in cooperatives or other groups that allow the democratic participation.
Brink Lindsey, director of the Center for Studies of Commercial Policies of the promercadista Cato Institute, thinks that the campaign of the Fairtrade coffee is “a well-meaning impasse”.
From the point of view of the cultivators, he is preferable to receive an advantage to sell a Fairtrade product that to receive a charity donation which they would receive from all ways, they worked or no, and without concerning the quality than they produce.
By all means, the common sense would have taken to the same conclusion.
Neither Florida nor Arizona are particularly progressive states -- both voted by George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
There is no federal legislation on the well-being of the farm animal -- and very few state legislations.
Altogether, their appointments raise a direct challenge to the objective that has Mr. Karzai to reunify to the country.
Eleventh it served like pilot.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets take to the efficiency as if handled an invisible hand to them) is invisible, at least partly, because it is not there.
Unfortunately, the students of these university programs are the one who now the policies of many countries design, and are trying to implement programs based on the ideas that have come in calling market fundamentalism.
The Nobel prize stresses the important thing that it is to study to the people and the economy as they are, not as we want that they are.
Today, to more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September of 2001, Bush seems to have waked up finally to the reality of the increasing dependency of EE.UU.; with the great increase of the prices of petroleum, it will be difficult to him not to notice the consequences.
Before the world had never seen a growth that sharp; before there has never been a level so of reduction of the poverty.
Arguments will consider trims in the growth to be against to the existence of solid social policies and average environmental: for example, one will say that “if the taxes raise the gasoline, that will mean the asphyxia of our rising automotive industry”.
There is a single way to avoid it: a abierto debate of the economic policies, with the purpose of to put in the open the deceits and to give space so that creative solutions to the many challenges arise that China faces nowadays.
The lessons of Tocqueville on the democracy
They only could pretend that they judged the events and the single values in case; in fact, merely they copied the coarse and simplified opinions of the masses.
If it is wanted to form to the informed citizenship and critical that the democracy needs, our schools must stop folding themselves to the more recent fleeting fashions and beginning to improve the analytical capacities of the students.
This preoccupation on massive means of communication is not mere elitist scorn towards the popular culture.
The result of that failure is a generalized indifference and a passivity of the public.
It is very behind schedule for doing something about a culture that extinguishes so much the spirit?
I believe that our future is as promising as shining it is the past of Europe, and that our destiny is not to be a forgotten border country a region in problems, but a constructor and creator of La Paz and the unit of Europe.
The self-determination no longer means isolation, since to obtain national independence nowadays it means only to return to the world-wide scene with new estatus.
Part of the task of renewing the Ukraine is a creative battle to end a century of nightmare in which fascism and the Comunism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, fought by the total power.
After the official accusations of the Kingdom against Hizbulah, the Saudi state summoned its official wahabíes clergymen to emit fatuas being condemned to Hazbolah like a schismatic organization of herejes and chiíes.
Clearly, this increases what is in game.
But this obstinate acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbors always has been vulnerable to a sudden eruption of famous irrational “derzhava” Russian: ethos aggressive that glorify to the state and affirm their force by means of the oppression of the weak ones.
This is the key to include/understand the recent crisis of the Russian gas.
