The more and more elderly people in the House and the open borders, more than ever, involve a racial fragmentation of the European countries.
Some support programmes for positive action to give preference to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to the College and the contract to grant public.
Others are in the affirmative action and argue that a political blind to the races, together with the profamiliar policies of the free market and values, is what is needed to create work them minorities and to help to maintain the black families united.
The money of the French taxpayer would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers who, in subsidies to maintain a non-profit plant life.
For decades, through democratic and Republican administrations, the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: to maintain as stable world prices of oil as it is possible to reduce hydrocarbons are the internal consumption of the less painful way does to reduce dependence on imports wherever possible does and to diversify the sources of imported oil.
The future of Iraq it depends directly on the fate of the production of oil in the country.
Before the invasion, the capacity of Iraqi oil production achieved three million barrels a day.
This year it was the turn of Africa to appoint the President, and appointed to Libya.
Let us remember: Libya is a totalitarian regime does its leader, moammar kadafi, combine erratic behaviour with extremist policies, and supporting dictators throughout the world.
The doors authoritarian
On the contrary, one of them was promoted to direct the recently established (with funds from the EU) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world, and the biggest Muslim democratic community of history.
This means that for every executed murderer three innocent victims would not die.
Of course, I am concerned about the risk of implementing an innocent.
And this process has increased a great deal with the development of the identification based on the DNA.
Although these political filters are a complex issue in post-communist societies, where both the victimisation and the cooperation is so widespread and the limits between them are so unclear, could have been found to be a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
As in the Ukraine, the Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
But it is too low a level can give the same result.
The government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenue they are devoted to the payment of interest.
In December 1999, the European Council to give Turkey the status of member-candidate to the EU, implies that it should accede to the Union in a future and not specified date.
Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and it is threatened, for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and the producers of coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although confused, but there is no followers authoritarian wishes?
The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, and yet the French are painfully aware that the overall position of the country is no longer what it once was.
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body in charge of such data, believed that they had put an end to this aspect of the dispute demonstrating that France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom have more or less the same standards of living, per capita.
A "shock therapy 'in the style of SARS.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of targeted static solidarity towards more people on the dynamic solidarity that will benefit young people.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity, in which it has two interpretation of subsidiarity: the vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
It involves the relationship between the state and society and the market.
When the opposition offers the government is more recently on the reform of the health system, or on the fight against unemployment, the underlying competition is on capabilities, more than on values.
However, below the camps common political debate in England and Germany and other parts of Europe, the clashes of values roam.
But the day will come when the global interest rates are beginning to make, as the central bankers prepare to resist the slow continues to rise in inflation.
What will happen when the banks start to raise interest rates?
The international capital flows - without including those arriving at the eu-todavía they are not at the level which is associated with the 'irrational exuberance', but there is still time for that to happen before the start to raise interest rates.
In addition, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high, and the last vestiges of the premiums of inflationary risks have been taken out of the interest rates.
In these periods - particularly when the value of the assets is quickly and substantial-we can see exactly skill of our central bankers to comply with its main task: to reduce financial volatility and to promote economic stability.
Certainly the challenges that the designer of economic policy in the world will face in the coming years will be different from that which has faced since the collapse of the bubble of NASDAQ.
In a word, no.
Even after the decisions, the generals were sufficiently powerful enough to ensure that the trial is over, and then to achieve the pardon of the incoming President.
The policy of Argentina is still engaged in the legal consequences of these trials of 20 years ago.
The ICTY made in effect a number of original decisions under the leadership of Mr Antonio Cassese.
During the regime of Saddam's efforts were not made to raise the standard of living of the poor.
What can we do now?
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq, which has meant that people become indifferent to the fact to kill.
Also, we can restore the technocrats who worked on the government of Saddam, so that they will also have the opportunity to serve their country.
The issue is more significant than it is due to incubate ideas, which is the one that comes from products of previous discoveries.
driven by an administration influenced by religion, the educational systems are changing its approach of science to the 'values'.
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, visas are littler and difficult to achieve, which has reduced the flow of young talent to the American universities.
Even if the United States is getting rid of a fundamentalist average age, they are clearly run the risk of losing its world domination in the field of research.
The central idea was that the military power could become outdated if other nations to control the 'food chain' of the military technology.
There is no reason why the same result in the Middle East could not be achieved.
pragmatic the Iranians argue that Iran will inevitably have to cooperate with the United States, at least to safeguard the rights of the Shiite Iraqi population.
Sooner or later they argue, the United States and the international community will recognize the value of the Iranian cooperation.
In short, those in favour of cooperation for an open and explicit negotiation: the support from Iran to stability in the current phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the standing government which arises in Iraq, whatever their signing, in exchange for an improvement of the regional and international position of Iran.
To believe that the United States is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
The only question is how to respond to it.
Turkey, on one side of the Middle East, and Morocco, on the other, are already well advanced.
These groups are saying that, if the regime does not intend to set the election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process should not be a problem.
It will be called upon to structural and demographic the European Central Bank to extend its monetary basis, as if to emulate the dollar the answer to all the industrial problems were, affecting Europe.
A policy epidemic
But almost everyone agrees that science are one thing, and this, the United States is becoming an instructive example for the rest of the world.
In its articles for one of the few independent newspapers that are in Moscow, novaya gazeta, and in his book 'Putin's Russia: life in a lack of democracy' (Russia de Putin: life in a democracy in crisis) and 'dirty war: to Russian Journal in Chechnya' (a dirty war: a Russian Journal in Chechnya), Politkovskaya drawing on the dissipation of the freedoms which is a mark of the identification of presidency of Putin.
After all, as a research journalist outraged many people in addition to Mr Putin, between what is nothing less than the present Chechen Prime Minister, Ramzan Kadyrov, to which he accused to implement a policy of extorsivos abductions.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin reached the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals.
Gerhard Schroeder, in less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that gaseoducto is building from Russia, through the Baltic to Germany and from there to Western Europe.
By avoiding the Ukraine and Poland, and, of course, the Baltic countries, new gaseoducto promises to give more weight to the Kremlin in its desire to be replaced regionally.
In fact, they wallow with her: after we integrate and we increase our business common of gas, the Russian editorialistas write, Europe remains silent on the subject of human rights.
As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, I often had to support these threats.
If the European seriously take their common area for human rights and freedom, must recognise that these values are not shared by the calculating officials of the Kremlin de Putin.
While we fought, the continuing secrecy gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
We often had to resort to cut to force a disclosure of information, for the freedom of information act to 2001 of Romania.
Today, within the government, I am aware that sharing information to the public sometimes it is difficult.
When the United States made the law of freedom of information in 1996, it was added to the exclusive company in Sweden and Finland.
The information distributed by the Government of Brazil indicates that the deforestation of the irreplaceable forests in Amazonia, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, reached the 2.6 million hectares (around 26, 000 square kms.) last year, taking the deforested area full of the Amazon a 17%.
The alliance between the WWF, and the World Bank also motivated to the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer these protected areas for ever.
The leaders of business, the governments and civil society organisations must play their part in realising that vision.
Our surprising results offer a clear picture of the Saudi attitudes.
a century later, the Japanese economic miracle was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of a place of rapid technological and industrial progress.
Today, they are fully aware that their slightly nostalgic post-colonial vision of these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
Perhaps the Asians would have to take account of the European model as a political version of Venice -- a place at almost visit with nostalgia for their glory last and admiration for their quality of museum.
More important question is whether the EU is divided irremediably.
The closed and the result is that Bush won a mandate for minor change that it seems to think.
In fact, the debate today is not about what to do and how much to be done and how quickly.
In Vietnam, a dramatic reduction in poverty given, whereas in Mexico the real wages fell.
All the opportunities that the market for the EU gave Mexico could not resist the consequences of the mistakes of internal policy, especially the inability to produce a real assessment of the exchange rate of the weight and to extend to the rest of the economy, the improvements in productivity achieved in a limited range of export activities.
There are many questions.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can have acted on their own account in order to coordinate and specific operations. now they will feel that they have more freedom to do so.
In addition, Ahmadinejad supports the programme in Iran openly to obtain nuclear weapons.
In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, it would be possible to be hoped that the Bush administration and the Congress dominated by the republicans were cautious when it comes to proposing new tax cuts.
It is that it appears that their budget deficits, mass here to stay.
participation in the elections in 2002 was only a 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of eligible voters.
George W. Bush has contributed most to the ruin of the economic policy of the USA that no other President of American history, even exceeding its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
This argument is also wrong.
In any case, it is a great mistake on tax policies of long term in the trade cycle of short term.
The second lesson is that the Member States would have to plan their budgets to take account of the increase in the financial costs of an ageing population.
Essentially, not only predictions are being made on the economy, but also on the policies - and perhaps on the values cultural-that give way to the strategies and to the economic action.
When the markets throughout the world to create an international consensus on the future price of the House in cities, we will be better able to manage the risks facing these cities and, therefore, to stabilise their economies -- and our own lives.
What the news move the markets?
Without a doubt, this was an important fact that perhaps it affected the securities markets throughout the world.
But this approach makes sense in which to intuition it concerns.
The movement towards a more ethical consumption also made significant progress in the United States, because consumers inclined, more and more, of organic food locally produced and eggs from hens that are not locked in cages.
Small farmers, on the other hand, it is required to do so to organise in cooperatives or other groups which allow the democratic participation.
edge Lindsey, the director of the Centre for studies of commercial policies of the promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign for the Fairtrade coffee is "a well-meaning impasse '.
From the point of view of the farmers, it is better to have an advantage to sell a Fairtrade product to receive a charitable donation that they would receive from all ways, they worked or not, and never mind the quality of what they produce.
Of course, the common sense would have come to the same conclusion.
Neither flowery or Arizona is particularly progressive States -- both by George W. Bush voted and not by John Kerry in 2004.
There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals -- and very few state legislation.
On the whole, their appointments raise a direct challenge to the objective that has Mr Karzai to reunite the country.
eleventh it served as a model.
the invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets are taking to the efficiency as if handled an invisible hand them) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
Unfortunately, the university students of these programmes are the people who are now the policies of many countries design, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas which have come to call a market fundamentalism.
The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as they are and not as we would like them to be.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have awakened finally to the reality of the growing dependence on the USA does with the huge increase in oil prices, it will be difficult for you not to notice the consequences.
In the eyes of the world have never seen a sustained growth which are never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
arguments will be earmarked for growth to be opposed to the existence of sound environmental social policies and means: for example, I will say that 'if the tax raise petrol, which will mean the stifling of our burgeoning automotive industry'.
There is only one way to prevent this, it is an open debate on economic policy, with the aim of putting into the open cheating and provide room for creative solutions to the many challenges arise that China is facing today.
The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy
They could only pretend that they judge the events and the single values in case does, in fact, they merely copied the crude and simplified opinions of the masses.
If we want to shape the informed citizenship and critical that democracy needs, our schools must stop fold themselves to the most recent passengers fashion and start to improve analytical capabilities of students.
This concern on mass means of communication is not purely elitist contempt for the people's culture.
The result of that failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
It is too late to do something about a culture which suggest both the spirit?
I believe that our future is as promising as brilliant, it is Europe's past, and that our fate is not to be a forgotten country a border region in problems, but a manufacturer and the creator of peace and the unity of Europe.
Self-determination is no longer means isolation, as to achieve national independence, today, it is only to return to the world stage with new status.
Part of the task of renewing the Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare in which, fascism and communism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, are fighting for the total energy.
After the official accusations of the Kingdom of hizbulah, the Saudi government announced its official wahabíes clerics to make fatuas being condemned to hazbolah as an organisation of herejes and schismatic chiíes.
This is clearly what is at stake.
But this reluctance to accept a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of famous irrational 'derzhava' Russian: ethos aggressive that glorify the state and assert its strength by means of the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to include / understand the recent crisis in the Russian gas.
