Our declaration of rights is first of this millenium.
This is applicable as much to Latvia as to the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Rumania from 1990 and with the present government the economy, finally, is giving true signs of improvement.
They also must be applied. The right European Community is indeed not only law in the books, but law in action also must be in the countries candidates.
The political vision continues being the same.
Third party: we must do everything what is in our hand to prepare until the 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process in the sense of the excellent speech of the President of the Prodi Commission.
The importance and the amplitude of the problems that the extension provokes not feel sorry with the double language that exceeds she comes used within the European Union.
This task will not be easy, if we considered the lack of good will of the Turkish Cypriot side and of Turkey.
We do not have to interfere in these profits that we reached with so many efforts.
I cannot accept the references that the Parliament in amendments 21 and 45 to the legal natural persons makes and, as well as to the groupings nonofficials, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to the individuals.
In my home country, to own a gun it would need a license, but it does not stop to install to me like arms broker in a shed of my garden.
Thanks, gentleman Commissioner.
Finally, the fixation of a high level of the contributions of uses and consumption on mineral oils do not lead to a not-fulfillment of the Community provisions on the competition.
The money is due to spend in the future of way more fit to the objectives and more effective, and evidently also it is due to guarantee better than the bottoms are dedicated to the aims for which it has destined them the budgetary authority.
It would wish that did not change the sense of the vote that will be expressed, but the truth is that there is to verify the translation of the French version.
Sir President, I have voted in favor of the report Evans.
With respect to the creed or the religion, the PLPE greets the principle of protection in this scope.
With an average of three hours per day, it is the more important human activity after the dream and, for the adults, after the work.
Paciotti. I can assure to him that today I will ask in the Commission what has happened and what it assumes is going to happen to average the destined one to the retirement of mines.
European, Mrs. Presidenta, without a doubt would be very inspired if they gathered to the flight the ball that the President of the Palestinian legislative Council sent to us right here.
When it seems that Milosevic has fled and who the will of the town has prevailed, we trusted that the actions to establish an association and a normal relation between Serbia and this Union of democracies are only delayed days.
However, the used method seems more debatable.
On the one hand, throughout the past year I have received several requests of companies that have felt a certain impotence as a result of certain decisions on fusions, mainly related to cases where they have had necessity to appeal the Commission decision before the Court of First Instance.
The Commission has continued acting especially signs and against the cartels and the abuses of dominant position.
I have to remember to the Honourable member that the voting will be celebrated later, the 12,30 hours.
Also, when the states candidates enter, each Member State must be able to maintain attached or main a commissioner.
On the one hand the command decision of the Israeli Government to congeal the peace negotiations by the violence in the zone and to center its efforts in the creation of a Government of concentration with the Head of the opposition, Mr.
The debate is closed.
For want of this fundamental reference, in the best one of the cases we stopped being understood, and in the worse one, we killed ourselves between us.
I am not going to go more far, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here -, to debate the report by the Institute of Florence.
Unfortunately, the final objective of an European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and is evident that we cannot approve it.
These are two subjects often appellants in the debates between the Parliament and the Council and that could give rules, if care is not had, to tension between both arms of the budgetary authority.
Although, like member of the same, I value much the work of this commission and in spite of the deep respect that deserves to me the work of the rapporteurs, in my Monetary capacity as rapporteur of the Economic Committee and I do not want to stop insisting on two amendments that our commission returns to present/display now before the Plenary session and which they continue being important although they have reduced the posts.
The political messages in the budget of this year are - since already Commissioner Schreyer- has said to the gentleman many. The reconstruction of the agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to assure one better implementation of structural policy, the pursuit of the decisions made in the Summit in Lisbon regarding the creation of one more the EU and hard more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
And I say to them of clear and unequivocal way: to Kostunica we must give an opportunity to him and I hope that in the coming weeks or months it starts up an amnesty, but meanwhile yes I want that at political and budgetary level political conditions to the execution of these two new budget lines, that is to say, the democratization and the reconstruction are put.
The availability to the dialogue of all the implied Institutions has given rise to an exemplary cooperation who will allow us I wait for, it sincerely, to arrive at a consensus in first reading.
Until today, since under the presidency of Delors an Interservice group for the outermost regions was created, we have crossed a length and fruitful way and to that European Group has presided over I I must express the deep appreciation of the ultra-peripheral ones.
Naturally I will inform to the President of its intervention.
The reform of the nourishing laws of the European Union will be carried out concerning the European Union.
The EU must count on the highest levels possible of food safety for its citizens.
To two kilometers of a village of Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a signal warns of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a boy in that place.
distribution of competences and responsibilities
Today it tries to prevent the relaxation of the enhanced cooperations, and will finish losing the game, also in this case.
The SME is main source of job creation, as much in quality as in amount. They carry out an essential role for the social cohesion and the arrangement of the territory.
To it even referred that me in the Slim report on the draft, because the Community legislation, and Mr. Medina finishes it to us trying with the reading of one of articles of the Treaty, is hardly comprehensible, for the experts.
The debate is closed.
It will be come now to the voting.
Well, I believe that these subjects lead to the heart of associated the fundamental principles of freedom to the European law, especially the freedom of movements, and exceptions to these principles cannot be done.
(A5-0314/2000) of Mrs Roure, in the name of the Committee on Citizens and Rights of citizens, Justice and Internal affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of an Agreement regarding the improving mutual assistance in field of criminal, especially in the field of fighting against the organized crime, the whitening of products of infractions and the financial crime (10213/2000 - C5-0394/2000 - 2000/0815 (CNS)).
All these considerations are picked up in the amendments and, judging by the debate celebrated in the commission, I totally trust that the Parliament will approve these amendments.
I trust that, even though today she is limited to give his vote in favour to this Letter, this Assembly is going to leave indubitablemente clearly in the coming weeks that the obligatory nature of the Letter asks the Council and that this one also includes the possibility of resorting to the European Court of Justice.
Most important for me it is that from Helsinki one has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for the accession of Turkey to the EU, a debate that supports to the forces of reform of the country and foments its development.
Duff/Voggenhuber recommendation (A5-0325/2000)
Therefore, the Letter would not be due to decide and to proclaim in the Nice Council, but in this Summit an European debate would be due to impel on the same.
The paper of Turkey in Cyprus is not acceptable either.
President of the Council, Mr. Moscovici- who says that to advance in the association of Turkey with the European Union, is not possible to take into account the question from Cyprus?
On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication that approved the 4 d October of 2000 on the oil provision of the European Union, indicates that it wants to present/display, in the European Council of Goteburgo, a plan of energy savings and diversification of energy source that would have to contribute to fortify the energy efficiency, especially in the buildings and the transports.
(The session, interrupted to the 18,55 hours, is started again to the 21,00 hours)
The raised communitarian extra aid in the report of Mr. Garot is, way to see, opposite to all sanity in these years, when with the Agenda the 2000 and forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform our agricultural policy.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those that are integrated with the production companies, would not participate in this device, preferring the systems that already they have: individual saving, bank loans, compensation fund.
Some amendments, like the 1 and the 18, have to do with questions that concern essentially to the United Kingdom and is necessary to say that all the groups of the United Kingdom, are socialist, popular or green they have defended, them with great vehemence and they have been approved in the Environment Committee.
I believe that conflict between 12 amendment and amendment 37 does not exist.
The extracommunity Mediterranean countries face, what it doubts fits, particularly serious problems related to the economic development. The regional inequalities are increased incessantly.
The Union must do more propose ones and to consider the extension to Turkey like indispensable a geopolitical strategy.
Major differences between the individual countries of the Union are registered, nevertheless, and lack comparable statistical data detailed to be able to state of trustworthy way what is what is in force in each country, what is - and where what works better, which are the weak points, et cetera. Therefore, indeed, in my opinion, elaborated by behalf of the Commission of Economic and Monetary Policy, the necessity is emphasized, before legislating Community rules on the supplementary health insurances, of which the Commission prepares a Green Paper that picks up and systematizes all these now dispersed data and all the information on the matter.
They also go in the sense to make a public system compatible of distribution with deprived systems of capitalization and, evidently, they are compatible also with supports for the creation of specific investment funds that can obtain long term tax advantages and that can help to make deal with the problem of the aging.
Frankly, it disappointed to me that in the declaration that did yesterday Prime minister Jospin was not any so positive recognition of the role that has carried out the Community during the past few years.
In this matter, it would want to show that the Liberal Group has presented/displayed an amendment that I hope that it is approved.
This is an huge amount.
I agree upon the necessity to know the causes better the poverty, support the preventive actions against the exclusion as a result of fusions, industrial changes, transfers of undertakings, rural desertification, urban hyperconcentration, with innovating and concrete interventions that involve the participation of the social partners, the local authorities and nationals and the joint action of the citizens.
It is evident that the issue of the situation of Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own means, through recognition of the authentic principles of democracy.
The access to documents and the information regarding the activities of the institutions allows the citizens to control to the control systems of the EU and stimulates an increased effectiveness.
I am pleased that the Parliament has managed to create a broad majority in favor of an increased openness.
Sir President, the position of the Commission with respect to the public access to documents can see itself in the internal handbook that was sent day 11 of October to the Commission employees to inform to them into how they must manage the requests for access public document presented/displayed by the deputies the European Parliament.
I consider that a step forward has occurred towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to the information and to the knowledge.
The reason by that it would suggest we postponed the voting is that - since has indicated Mr. Goebbels - one is a very important question.
He is necessary and urgent to go more far: to promote a change of the Common agricultural policy.
I do not have the reserves that have been able to express our companion and dear friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the Countries of America Central and Mexico, Mr. Seguro, as far as the issue of human rights.
Some think that the importance of the democracy is relative when is Africa, that is complex procedures, that is precise to give time to the time. However, I believe that there is no possible compromise with the democracy and the question that considers today for the Ivory Coast she is the same that the one that considers for example for Guinea, when it knows at the moment that there are people in prison and who there is no a democratic system.
The voting on its delay means to delay the order to the Commission.
It seems rare to me that it is now wanted to handcuff to the Commission facing a proposal for a directive, but that simultaneously requests a Green Paper to him on the present state of the voluntary associations and the complementary health insurances.
East fact initial comment, I would like to indicate that I believe that the economic operators also consider the approach satisfactory that is had been giving to these regulations on the capital which they reinforce the subjects referred to the risk.
The starting point of the present report is the recommendation of the ombudsman to the Commission, in relation to the previous thing, of which it makes possible to the candidates access to his examinations already corrected with respect to the procedure of selection organized by the same.
This one is the position also defended by the rapporteur and that European European People joint party.
It seems that the majority of that they have taken part until now considers that he is essential that the school has soothes permanent.
The climate changes have major consequences in the developing countries.
It is truth that its text could have been better, and could well be perfected and be emphasized after Nize.
The situation is this one in which we have been involved for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the cause is in which nobody resignation to its toy.
- (FR) Sir President, considering the delay that we also took and my obligations, I will try to be brief the intervention that was preparation.
Finally it would want to every time express the preoccupation of my Group by the worst situation in Afghanistan and to insist to the Commission and the Council so that they do whatever can to reach a pacific solution and so that they help the population, especially now to the entrance of the winter.
It wishes Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with a nondemocratic regime?
I have received a motion for a resolution, in accordance with section 5 of article 42 of the Regulation, to close this debate.
Sir President, first of all, I want to give them thanks to the four rapporteurs by excellent work carried out.
From my point of view, in the world a structure does not exist that magazine one more a greater and fundamental importance: fifteen States and in the future twenty or more, a continent whole number; the part of the globe at the moment more industrialized barks in the Union and, through her, in the Commission by means of its structures.
We return to this now, since it constitutes a good frame in itself.
From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, this could allow us, on the other hand, to debate with the Member States an agreement based on the proposals presented/displayed by you, and adopt the text in first reading, with qualified majority if it were necessary.
I believe that in the case of the limit of liabilities of classification societies, regardless of which he is decided today, it is precise that the Council and the Parliament return to reflect jointly on this.
It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is against, in fact, to a marine high level of safety.
Although neither the proposal for amendments of the existing directive on control of ships nor the report Watts respond to the actual requirements, they take certain passages in positive sense. Therefore the Members of the European Parliament of the Party Greek Communist we have voted in favor of the report.
It would be rather a major success, since Europe that we needed, on the eve of the extension, is not a Europe rigid, hierarchized, distant, but a Europe flexible and near the towns, therefore based on the respect for national democracies.
The most important task of Nize is to guarantee that the EU has effective institutions.
Also it burdens is the pretension that a State that does not wish to participate in a mission sees forced to pay a financial contribution that will distribute the Participating States in that war.
In a recent past, different scandals and failures from operation concluded, in March of 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
We do what we do, we vote, and I am in favor of a resolution since they have suggested Mr. Poettering, Mr.
Recently in the United States judgments against the tobacco multinationals have gained to poison and to lie on the absence of toxicity of products.
He would be preferable to wait for until the question of additives has treated as a whole in the initial report of the Commission.
He would be more just than summer time finished at the end of September, to about six months of its beginning.
It would want to give my congratulation to the rapporteur, Mr. Liese, by its report and to be thankful for its effort to him to conciliate the opposite views.
Mrs. Presidenta, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the prorogation of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, would want to express my preoccupation exceeds how and in what sense evolves the European policy in the matter of public health.
I have understood that the Council also has given in principle his consent.
Never, in the level of the Member States nor in the communitarian one, it is necessary to leave the basic principle of which the individuals always must assume the responsibility of their acts.
A new legal basis for the status of political parties has been anticipated European and to the Parliament the statute of anticipated institutional plaintiff in article 230 of the Treaty is granted to him.
Then, we forget Nize, fijémonos in which come later, and permítanme you who feed my hope with the project on grand convention advanced by Belgium for their Presidency, because is demonstrated, it is necessary to make blotch and it counts new, it is necessary to change of method, it is necessary to accelerate history: 2004 are too much behind schedule, are too much far, are too dangerous.
This principle forces the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as all Administration must do.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis resorting to article 272; the Perspective have stayed Financial, in spite of to have used the flexibility instrument.
In the policy area, the common strategy for Russia proposes to enter a permanent dialogue on policy and security and to create for it a permanent mechanism.
Have you it intention to support this project, gentleman Commissioner Patten?
This directive is of 1992.
Now, it is necessary to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very brought back to consciousness and that there will be to follow ahead.
Sir President, gentleman Commissioner, Lordships, would want to begin congratulating to Mrs Maij-Weggen by the excellent work that has realised.
It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
It would like us that the Member States abrieran negotiations facing having a homogenous legislation in field of criminal, however, we do not want to put under our countries a communitarian federal Office of the public prosecutor.
It is a proposal that has had a length, and I am afraid that stormy, way to surpass some of the existing difficulties.
In the European Parliament what we must do it is to regulate of a minimum form in the European level the great fields that cause tension in the right of acquisitions, for example, presidency in front of shareholders, major shareholders in front of small or companies in front of capital market.
Some proposed amendments by the Parliament still improve plus the common position text of the Council. Due to it, their points focus attention on questions that could give rise to difficulties in the interpretation and which they are urgent more to a rapid change of the directive.
Them memory to my Conservative colleagues the mess in which they put in the United Kingdom when they tried to privatize the British postal service.
Sometimes it seems as if the Commission, in the proposals of deregulation in the commerce and the agricultural production at international level, outside even more far than the Group of Cairns.
During already the 35 years of my long parliamentary life always I have relied on this norm.
If he is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin of decades ago, how can be granted a minimum confidence to Mr. Putin, twig of Chechen people, godfather of the different Mafias, that it insists on eliminating all type of opposition, the civil society (political unions, parties), to reinforce its personal power?
Sir President, Lordships, the tax systems of the Union are losing claw and capacity of collection.
The Primarolo group has made simple rules that are necessary to apply.
Sir President, I am thankful for to Mrs Comisaria its continuous commitment in the field of the marine security.
As a result of the received critics, especially of Ireland and France, the measurement changed and now the British minister of Property has given a different turn him: now one appears like a rate by right of usage for all, including the British lorry drivers.
Food additives different from colouring and sweeteners
Then, also it was verified that the Commission lacked the instruments necessary to act suitably.
Those have been many that have suggested the budget is too small.
Finally, if we want that the application of the precautionary principle is effective and credible, is fundamental the participation of all the interested, including the representatives of the civil society, in the political decisions that surround their application
Sir President, the environment and the public health are like a complicated machine with a pile of functions that we watched and we controlled to be able to take part and that thus does not spoil.
In addition, we objected the agricultural product overproduction and the use of average destined to the information to sell them.
In the really important subjects like taxes, tributes, social policy, asylum and emigration, everything it stays as before.
But this Parliament also fought so that this reduction of the resources for the innovative measures was compensated using the instrument of flexibility determined to a clause of the Budgetary Forecast.
Everything what they must do is to gain the confidence of the people who live on the Rock.
Community competence, no matter how much some people wish another thing, includes the classification of the ports to carry out repair works in submarines, neither security issues technical of nuclear reactors nor the requirements so that a submarine is retired for their repair in another place.
Sir President, Lordships, would want to take part on the joint resolution in whose favor evidently we will vote.
This treatment is exactly the same that we see in western Europe and, before the protests, Minister Hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer so that a political and social consensus is obtained on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.
First of all, I want to congratulate to Mr. Dary by its excellent report.
It is not necessary to pay by certain products that are not demanded, nor to do propaganda to them.
