 Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
 This applies both to Latvia and the European Union.
 The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990, and with the current government the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
 They must also be applied. The European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
 The political vision remains the same.
 Thirdly: we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 the European Union for the enlargement process in the sense of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
 The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language which has been used on it within the European Union.
 This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of good will in the Turkish part of Cyprus and Turkey.
 We should not interfere in these achievements we found in such efforts.
 I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as to the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
 In my own country, to own a scatter-gun need a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo my garden.
 Thank you, Commissioner.
 Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions uses on mineral oils and consumption will not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
 The money must be spent in the future in a more realistic way to the objectives and more effective, and of course we must also ensure that funds are used for the purposes for which the allocated by the budgetary authority.
 I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote which will be expressed, but the truth is that we need to verify the translation of the French version.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
 With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
 With an average of three hours a day, it is human activity more important after the dream, and for adults, after the work.
 Mrs Paciotti. I can assure you that today to ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources for mine-clearance.
 Madam President, the Europeans would certainly very inspired if collected flight that we launched the ball here the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
 When it appears that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies are delayed for only a few days ago.
 On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
 On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests of companies that have a certain sense of powerlessness following certain decisions on mergers, particularly relating to cases where they have had to go to the decision of the Commission before the Court of First Instance.
 The Commission has followed acting firm and especially against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
 I would remind the honourable Member that the vote be held later, at 12.30 p.m.
 Similarly, when the candidate countries join, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
 On the one hand, the decision of the head of the government of Israel to freeze the peace negotiations by violence in the region and focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration with the opposition leader, Mr.
 The debate is closed.
 Without this fundamental reference, in the best of cases we fail to understand, and at worst we slaughtered each other.
 I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
 Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot endorse it.
 These are two matters recurrent often in the discussions between Parliament and the Council, and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.
 Despite the fact that, as a Member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this Commission and despite the great respect to the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I cannot fail to stress two amendments that our committee has tabled before the plenary and that remain important although they have reduced the figures.
 The political messages in this year's budget are - as has already been said by Commissioner Schreyer many. The restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of structural policy, the monitoring of the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
 And I say this clearly and unambiguously koštunica: it must be given a chance, and I hope that in the coming weeks and months mounts an amnesty, but I do want at political level and budgetary policies are put conditions to the execution of these two new budgetary lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
 The availability of dialogue between all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary collaboration which will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
 Until now, since under the presidency of Mr Delors was set up an interservice group for the outermost regions, we have travelled a long and fruitful path and who has chaired this Group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans outermost regions.
 Of course I will inform the President of your speech.
 The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
 The EU must have the highest standards of food safety for its citizens.
 Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in an area is a sign of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
 The distribution of powers and responsibilities
 Today is to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will ultimately lose the departure, in this case too.
 SMEs are the main source of job creation, both in terms of quality and quantity. Play an essential role for social cohesion and for planning.
 That is what I meant in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina we just test with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even the experts.
 The debate is closed.
 We now proceed to the vote.
 Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and cannot be exceptions to these principles.
 (A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the field of the fight against organised crime, laundering of the proceeds of fraud and crime in financial matters (10213 / 2000 - C5-0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).
 All these considerations are reflected in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
 I hope that, although today it is limited to give its assent to this letter, this House will make it indubitablemente clear in the coming weeks calling on the Council to the obligation of the Charter and that this also includes the possibility of recourse to the European Court of Justice.
 What is most important to me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, among the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey ’ s accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to the forces of reform of the country and promote their development.
 Duff / Voggenhuber recommendation (A5-0325 / 2000)
 Therefore, the Charter should not decide and proclaim at the Nice Council, but in this summit should be encouraged a European debate on the same.
 Nor is it acceptable to Turkey's role in Cyprus.
 President-in-Office of the Council, Mr moscovici- which says that in order to make progress in the partnership with Turkey with the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the issue of Cyprus?
 Furthermore, the Commission, in the communication that d approved on 4 October 2000 on the oil supply of the European Union, states that it wants to submit, at the Gothenburg European Council a plan for energy savings and diversification of energy sources which should help to improve energy efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
 (The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
 Community aid extra raised in Mr Garot ’ s report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, when with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform of our agricultural policy.
 On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with companies production, it would take no part in this device, preferring the systems that already have individual: savings bank loans, compensation fund.
 Some amendments, such as Amendments Nos 1 and 18, relate to issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom, and I have to say that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, Greens, unpopular or have defended with great vehemence and have been approved in the Committee on the environment.
 I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
 The non-Community Mediterranean countries are faced with, no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to economic development. Regional inequalities are acrecientan unimpeded.
 The Union must make more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
 There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and detailed statistics comparable to say truthfully what is in force in each country, what is - and dónde- what works best, what the weaknesses are, etc. It is precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drafted on behalf of the Committee on Economic and monetary policy, the need is stressed, before legislating Community rules on the supplementary insurance disease, for the Commission to draw up a Green Paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
 Also move in the direction of making compatible a public system of distribution in private capitalisation systems and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of investment funds can obtain specific tax advantages in the long term and can help to tackle the problem of ageing.
 Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday the Prime Minister Jospin there were no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
 In this regard, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
 This is a huge amount.
 I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, delocalization, rural abandonment, urban hyperconcentration, innovative and practical measures which involve the participation of social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
 It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
 On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own media, through the recognition of the principles of democracy.
 Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to monitor the governing bodies of the EU and stimulates greater effectiveness.
 I welcome the fact that Parliament has succeeded in creating a large majority in favour of greater openness.
 Mr President, the Commission's position with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the internal manual which was sent on 11 October to Commission employees to inform you of how to handle applications for access to public documents submitted by Members of the European Parliament.
 I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
 The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels stated - is a very important issue.
 It is necessary and urgent to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
 I do not have the reservations which he has been able to express our colleague and dear friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the issue of human rights.
 Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, that must be given time. However, I believe that no compromise is possible with democracy and the question being asked today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that which arises for example in Guinea, when we now know that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
 The vote on your delay means postponing the task to the Commission.
 I find it strange that the Commission now wants to be required for a proposal for a directive, but that at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
 This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators satisfactory also view the approach which has been giving these regulations on capital reinforce issues relating to risk.
 The starting point of this report is ombudsmann's recommendation to the Commission, in relation to this, which make it possible for the candidates access to their examinations already corrected in respect of the selection procedure organised by the same.
 This is also the position defended by the rapporteur and which the European People's Party shares.
 It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers it essential that school has a fixed location.
 Climate changes have major consequences in developing countries.
 It is true that your text could have been better, and it can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
 This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody waives her toys.
 - (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay which has been and also my responsibilities, I will try to make the speech I had prepared.
 Finally, I would like to express my group's concern over the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do everything in their power to reach a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of winter.
 Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political Union with an undemocratic regime?
 I have received a motion for a resolution, pursuant to Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
 Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
 From my point of view, in the world there is a structure which magazine greater significance and fundamental: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, an entire continent; the more industrialised currently part of the globe, late in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
 Returning to this now because it provides a good framework in itself.
 From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, this could afford, moreover, to discuss with the Member States, an agreement on the basis of the proposals tabled by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority, if necessary.
 I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today, it is important that the Council and Parliament to reflect together on this.
 It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is opposed to a high degree of safety at sea.
 Despite that neither the proposal for an amendment of the existing directive on the control of vessels or the Watts report correspond to the real needs, give certain steps in the positive sense. That is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
 It would be a great success, for the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, Europe is not a rigid, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible and Europe closer to the people, therefore based on respect for the national democracies.
 The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU to have efficient institutions.
 Equally serious is the claim that a state which does not wish to participate in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution will be participating states in that war.
 In the recent past, various scandals and failures, concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
 Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
 Recently in the United States they have earned trials against tobacco multinationals and by poison lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.
 It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives in its entirety in the first report of the Commission.
 It would be more justified that summertime money at the end of September, some six months of its inception.
 I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
 Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what direction the developing European policy in the field of public health.
 I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
 Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we must abandon the basic principle that human beings should always take responsibility for their actions.
 It has provided for a new legal basis for the statute for European political parties and Parliament being granted the status of institutional plaintiff provided for in Article 230 of the Treaty.
 Then, forget Nice, look at what comes later, and allow me to my hope fed with the draft Convention very moved by Belgium for your Presidency, because it has been proved, it must be clean slate, there needs to be a change of method, we must speed up the story: 2004 is too late, is too far away, it is too dangerous.
 This maxim obliges the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as should make any authority.
 That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis resorting to Article 272; we have maintained the financial perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
 In the political field, the common strategy towards Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and create a permanent mechanism.
 Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
 This directive is of 1992.
 Now, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to move forward.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
 It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
 We would like to see the Member States opened negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a Federal Prosecutor Community.
 It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
 In the European Parliament, what we must do is to regulate a minimum way at European level the major areas which cause tensions in the procurement law, for example, the presidency towards shareholders, large shareholders against small companies or against capital market.
 Some amendments tabled by Parliament to further improve the text of the common position of the Council. As a result, its points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and urge a more rapid transformation of the directive.
 I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British Post Office.
 Sometimes it seems as if the Commission, in the proposed deregulation in trade and agricultural production at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.
 During the already 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always kept to this rule.
 If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin of decades, how can we give a minimal confidence in Mr Putin, the murderers of the Chechen people, the godfather of various mafia, which insists on settle all kinds of opposition, civil society, political parties (trade unions), in order to strengthen their personal power?
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing edge and capacity.
 The Primarolo group has drawn up a simple rules, it is necessary to apply.
 Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the field of maritime safety.
 As a result of the criticisms made, particularly in Ireland and France, we have changed the extent and now the British Chancellor of the Exchequer he has taken a turn for the different: now being presented as a tax on the right of use for all, including the British lorry drivers.
 Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
 Then, it was also found that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act appropriately.
 There have been many have suggested that the budget is too small.
 Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is essential to the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation
 Mr President, the environment and public health are complicated as a machine with a raft of functions that monitor and control in order to be able to intervene, and that this should not be obstructed.
 In addition, we object to the over-production of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to be sold.
 In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and migration, everything is as before.
 But this Parliament also fought for this reduction in resources for innovative policies were offset using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
 All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the rock.
 The competence of the Community, even if some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of seaports to make repair work in submarines, or questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine may be withdrawn for repair in another place.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution on which we shall be voting in favour, of course.
 This treatment is exactly the same as we see in Western Europe, and to the protests, the Minister hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to ensure social and political consensus on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.
 First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary, for his excellent report.
 We must not pay for certain products that are not, or to propaganda.
