The population increasingly old at home and open borders more than ever, involve racial fragmentation in European countries.
Some encourage affirmative action programs that give priority to minorities for the allocation of work, admission to school and the granting of public contracts.
Others oppose affirmative action and argue that a blind policy races, together with the policies of the free market and profamiliares values, is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep families together black.
The money from the French taxpayers would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers in subsidies to keep non-profit-making plant.
For decades, through democrats and Republican administrations, America has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining world oil prices as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
The future of Iraq is directly dependent on the fate of the oil production in the country.
Before the invasion, the ability of Iraqi oil production ranged three million barrels a day.
This year was the turn of Africa to nominate the president, and became Libya.
Remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyrannies; its leader, Moammar Quadafi, combines erratic behaviour with extremist policies, and supports dictators throughout the world.
Autoritarios upon
On the contrary, one of them was promoted to lead the newly established (with funds from the US) Anti-Terror Unity in Jakarta.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the greatest Muslim democratic community of history.
This means that for every murderer not executed die three innocent victims.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of executing an innocent.
And this process has reinforced with the development of identification based on DNA.
Although these political filters are a complex matter in postcommunist societies, where both victimisation as cooperation are so widespread and the boundaries between them are so unclear, could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
But too low a level can give the same result.
The government debt in India is over 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenues are dedicated to the payment of interests.
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that accede to the Union at a future date and not specified.
Democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is threatened by one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
Evo Morales, leader of the opposition and leaf coca growers, may be an honest democratic leader, although disoriented, but lack his followers of authoritarian wishes?
The French State spends huge sums of money in the spread of its language and culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware that the overall stance of their country is not what was once.
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought they had ended this aspect of the controversy show that France, Germany, Italy and Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
A "shock therapy" in the style of
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards the elderly on the dynamic solidarity that benefits the young.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity that has two interpretations: the vertical subsidiarity and horizontal subsidiarity.
It covers relations between the state, society and the market.
When the opposition offers the government talks on the reform of the health system or more recently on combating unemployment, the underlying competition is on capabilities, rather than on values.
However, below the battlefields common political debate in England and Germany and elsewhere in Europe lurk values of shocks.
But the day will come when interest rates global start to rise, as central bankers to prepare for resisting the slow upward trend of inflation.
What will happen when the banks begin to raise interest rates?
This is an alarming perspective, because the lesson that we left the 1990 s was that nobody should overestimate the stability of the international financial flows.
As a result, even after the levels of production return to its potential, interest rates remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980 s and 1990 s.
Also in these times we realize the number of people long-term bonds, real estate or actions not because I consider that the current prices are attractive in connection with the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
The risks associated with inflation perhaps are less dangerous than those that generate the fall in production and the threat of deflation.
The interest rates of the so-called sovereign debt in euros of the twelve governments of the eurozone are very similar.
The policy of Argentina is still entangled in the legal consequences of those judgments of 20 years ago.
At international level, the UN Security Council decision to establish the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY by its initials in English) was also received with great confidence.
However, the judges had the misfortune to fulfil their dream more ambitious - judge in its court archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
I visited the extensive slums in Iraq and I found families living in homes little ceiling, which are infested of insects and slip below the doors black waters.
In these areas deprived home to the majority of Iraqis, people is prey to the bitter temptations.
Although the current conditions of Iraq many young people to violence, I am convinced that all we have to do to save them is to give them decent dwellings and jobs.
Last but not least, we must provide credit to the families to help them build a respectable life.
Imagine the influence generate if a Pakistani institute outside the world leader in research into cancer.
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, visa are more meagre and difficult to obtain, which has decreased the flow of talent young American universities.
The important scientific organisations have protested, without achieving results.
Japan recognised the link between the political influence and science in the 1980 s.
The title of the book relates to the plan of "Japan does not say" the military influence of the United States once Japan checked military key technologies.
But first, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a legacy of that must be proud.
For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in Iraq is not hostile, and should seek friendly bilateral relations.
The Iranian cooperation should pay with the dismantling of the infrastructure of the MKO in Iraq, perhaps joined the Iranian commitment to increase its efforts to overcome any activity of al-Qaeda, and to expel Iran to its members.
This vision is very popular among Iranian reformists (both inside and outside the government) and the technocratic and commercial class more international mentality.
From the point of view of the radicals, the least that America is dictate major change in the Iranian foreign policy.
While the forces of the Coalition to remain, it is likely that the violence increasing.
The demonstrations unprecedented against the Syrian occupation in Lebanon after the murder of their former Prime Minister Rafiq al-Hariri, do not signs of calm.
This argument was quickly negated when the Association of the courts announced that it supported the presence of observers of civil society.
We need to see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privilege of America as a way to counter the fundamental lack of power in Europe.
A few surprises us (although some are disappointed) to be given a federal judge or diplomatic high level a candidate who pass evidence of loyalty principles that are important for the party of the chairman or the Prime Minister.
Obviously, it is legitimate question a future Secretary of Health and Human Services (SSH) on its position on abortion.
I am not accusing Putin's government in the murder of Politkovskaya salary.
As the murder of Archbishop Thomas Beckett Cathedral of Canterbury many centuries ago, the crime was committed in clearly of the conviction that happy the king.
On the other hand, the president observes silent while their former colleagues in the security service in Russia FSB (the former KGB) are unsafe murdered and launch a number of causes of spying glaring against journalists, scientists and environmental activists.
Its apparent lack of ethics grows by the fact that at this precise moment Russia is threatening to interrupt gas supplies to Ukraine if this country is not yielding to the demands of prices in the gas giant of ownership, the Kremlin Gazprom.
Should Europe really grant Putin this new weapon imperial?
What this means is that Russia must be "independent" of the moral concerns and human rights of Western democracies.
The Kremlin is very good for pretend that idealism.
Is it conceivable that the land of the "red terror", with countless crimes without punishment of the Soviet era, and traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, provide a reliable aid to stop the threats to the world of Iran and North Korea?
In addition to achieve what the EU now regarded as a "functioning market economy", there were fundamental political and legal changes, which I monitored as Minister of Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the funding of political parties until a shake-up of the judiciary.
Presentábamos civil action against the prosecutor and judges imposed a fine for every day that information was withheld.
It could have implemented the economic and political reforms that we used an income as a member of the EU if we had not put our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in decision-making inevitably goes hand in hand with this openness.
In Romania, those who fought for a law of freedom of information made full use of it.
Various organisations, environmentalists and businesses concerned the forests in the world are joining forces to reverse the reforestation and improve the management of forests.
In turn, this was an initiative of USD 53 million in the US Department of State to promote the forestry conservation of the Congo.
The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have many not only challenged the prospects for survival of the ruling House of Sauds, but ask if the kingdom is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.
It is clear that in the four countries religiosity is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of those polled states believe in God, in life after the death, and heaven and hell.
Several prominent Asian, as the former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, today are warning to Europeans that if we continue with its present course, Europe quickly will be irrelevant to everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
The quality, the costs and times of delivery in the automotive industry, are reaching the European level.
The change of Condoleezza Rice by Colin Powell in the secretariat of State of the US shows that the recent presidential election of that country remains impact.
Some you call "Costopía".
How rid of the habit of oil
Among the most important stresses that economic development is very much in the hands of poor nations themselves.
What these examples show that internal efforts succeed on anything to determine the economic fortune of a country.
Without any of the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam applied a concentrated strategy to diversify its economy and improve the productive capacity of its domestic suppliers.
Are prepared for the inevitable flow of power and influence towards the raw materials producers as much richer?
The majority of the Iranian politicians -- at least those that the government allows them to operate openly - support the programme, but lean toward a discreet and more cautious approach.
Rafsanjani, for example, preferred to build better economic relations with the West progress in the nuclear front.
At the same time, the Administration is proposing large increases in military spending.
But this figure optimistic, because probably not adequately includes the costs of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax cuts, or the risks of higher interest rates in the coming years.
We can prevent war in Iraq.
In doing so, Bush has put at risk social stability and economic strength of long-term in the United States.
In any case, it is a great mistake to base tax policies in the long-term business cycle of short term.
The first is that the US increasing budget deficits sooner or later restricted international power of the United States.
We should ask the governments to submit budgetary assessments of long-term with its annual budget proposals, in order to reduce the trend of political manipulation of short-term in the budget.
The homes are the most local investments, rooted in a particular place as a tree, and, therefore, growing or marchitando in response to local economic conditions.
The stock markets in much of the world have been marked cumulative falls from approximately 10 May, general, low occurred in a period of two weeks until around 23 May, but prices continued to plummet on average since then.
The problems in the stock markets in the world lead to problems for the world economy?
Still, increases in the price of oil do not correspond with the period in mid-May in which the rates of the securities markets more badly fell.
Ahmadinejad is charismatic; Bernanke, not.
There is no comparable research in the United States, but from related data and discussions with my own pupils, reveals that the figure would be much less.
Not everyone agrees with Fairtrade.
According to the opinion of Lindsey, if we want to help coffee growers, we should encourage them to leave coffee and produce more profitable crops - and here, rightly points out, trade barriers and subsidies from rich countries as obstacles that must be dismantled - or products of greater value, as special cafes, higher prices.
Fairtrade is not a government subsidy.
In the case of calves, the date, 1 January 2007, almost has arrived.
It appears that the Americans animal welfare irrelevant as Europeans.
The movement for the welfare of animals, despite the wide popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of political lobbying and donations to campaigns.
The Hazars and tayik each nearly a fifth of the population.
What do these statistics in terms of the daily reality?
For more than 20 years, economists have been fascinated by so-called models of "rational expectations', which assumed that all participants have the same (if not perfect) information and who act perfectly rational, that markets are perfectly efficient, unemployment never exists (except when it is caused by the greed of unions or the minimum wages of the governments), and in which there is never a rationing of credit.
The good science acknowledges its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations often have shown that modesty.
The bad faith in the energy policy of Bush
Bush still refuses to do anything with the conservation, and has supported with very little money its constant mantra that the technology is what has to save.
While much of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington Consensus, geared to a crusade quijotesca more GDP, once again China has made clear that seeks increases sustainable and fair in the real standards of living.
There is one way to avoid it: an open discussion of economic policies, to expose fallacies and give room for arising creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
Most people out of China does not appreciate how their leaders, in contrast, have been involved in lengthy deliberations and extensive consultations (even with foreign) in their efforts to address the enormous problems that face.
Tocqueville is deservedly famous to reject the reactionary nostalgia and consider the triumph of democracy as our destiny, while warned of the dangers that leads to democracy for freedom.
Tocqueville believed that this trend had no effective long-term limitations.
Today many people is more time of their lives watching television that halls of class.
The result of this failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
It is a culture which, because of their oversight, threatens the democratic freedom because cannot create any sense of duty - society, history, the community.
Does will also short-sightedness of our leaders as an agent of its disturbing prophecy?
The new nations can create with its former occupiers the same sort of fruitful relationship that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
This is the kind of relationship that my government seeks with Russia, and it is the way we can extend the area of peace in Europe.
Only a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze, in trying to inform the public about the corruption of the old regime, was tortured and beheaded by his henchmen.
As intensified these antagonisms, will come to believe the Sunni regimes which need its own Hezbollah in their corner of the world?
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden eruption of the irrational famosamente Russian "derzhava": an aggressive ethos glorifying the state and affirms its strength through the oppression of the weak.
It is equally sure that any sign of democratic decline in Georgia and other states post-Soviet will give impetus to the Russian Neo-Imperial ambitions.
It is the responsibility of Europe convince Russia that there is no hope of a return to the past.
