Our statement of rights is the first of this millennium.
This applies both to Latvia as to the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a major problem in Romania since 1990 and with the current government's economy, at last, is giving real signs of improvement.
They must also be applied, the European Community law is not only a law in "books, but it also has to be in the candidate countries a law in action.
The political vision remains the same.
In this context, I should like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council, and to point out that the Council recently responds with a significant delay in the written questions from Members.
For me to talk about enlargement means not recognising the party or non-party of some countries to Europe.
Stenzel report (A5-0243/2000)
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Another important point is the ban on the export, promotion and marketing of know-how and equipment used to inflict torture.
With regard to the problems of the SMEs, of course we have seen that in the framework programme, SMEs, as planned in the budgetary decisions.
Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in cases in which the Member States tax resources encourage specific sector of industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case the fiscal state aid, which amounts to a subsidy.
With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like very briefly to point out the following: the Commission accepts the introduction of the additional recital.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
It is recognised that the knowledge of foreign languages is a necessary precondition for mobility.
- (SV) We Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equality in the workplace.
On the other hand, women often take 'flexible' posts; the temporary contracts or the low wages are typical of the sectors that employ mainly women.
B5-0794/2000 by Mr Medina Ortega, Mr Linkohr and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the kidnapping in Colombia of a Spanish Jesuit participant in the negotiations with the guerrillas.
The position of Jerusalem is the complicated issue in the negotiations.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 6 October 2000.
If we talk about a Charter of Rights and if we look favourably on a European Constitution we cannot be estrábicos, but that we must say that we have to take all the necessary steps, but this requires a more careful legislation, and I do not believe that.
I should also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner Monti on when we can expect to be put in place a public register, effective and efficient of state aid, and also on when we will long promised table of results.
Mr Rapkay, the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the pursuit of its policy on competition and I do not believe that such support is going to disappear.
In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
The wording of the text of Article 93 is all the more dramatic, once achieved the first wave of enlargement, we will find it even more difficult to move towards a qualified majority.
We have learnt with a great deal of satisfaction of the victory of the Yugoslav people and the choice of Koitunica as president.
In the absence of this fundamental reference, in the best case left to understand each other, and in the worst, we slaughtered each other.
Democracy has improved in Europe, but, for its part, the European democracy is ill.
According to the information - I am going to be technical, forgive me - which has been communicated to the Presidency, I believe that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version, only makes reference, for the implementation of the cohesion policy, to the least favoured islands, and not to the islands in general.
In fact, in the strengthened European home, there will be invited to people's military table, monetary, possibly tax, and then the other peoples, which will be on the side.
The situation is similar when it comes to the structural policy.
With these measures we propose to ensure that judicial control back to operate fully, to restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and consolidate its character of the community of law.
In spite of what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints without undermining the agricultural budget required for sustainable rural sector in the current Member States.
Furthermore, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners will soon be in freedom.
In my own country be reformed the law of personal data, depriving the parliamentary power over the decisions of the Commission.
I do not doubt that the proposals put forward by the Commission to the Council will be the stamp of these qualities.
Both this Food Authority as the legislative proposals that we put forward, seeking to guarantee food safety, will have the support of this Parliament, Mr Commissioner.
It is very clearly stated in the report and I am very pleased to do so.
I fear that Europe will run the risk of allowing a inflated apparatus of officials who is unable to act.
Let me, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome you on behalf of our institution, with which your country has a privileged relationship in the context of our common project to build an area of prosperity, security and peace in the Mediterranean basin.
Gil-Robles aid, because it proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas some Member States of the European Union agree a joint action.
- (SV) In general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is favourable.
Thirdly, we need to find the European added value.
What is important for the institutions of the EU is that we have a strong commitment to increase the quality of legislation, particularly with regard to the principle of subsidiarity.
Mr President, in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to prepare thoroughly the Karamanou report.
As you know, the matter is very complex and affects 700 people who work in more than twenty-five Italian universities.
The debate is closed.
The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot continue to be in the hands of an agency specialised, subject to the control of the national governments.
However, in reality, all this is not so easy.
But, above all, it is the strength of its content that the Charter, I am sure, will take time.
What is now wants to a necessary boost in the scene of future accession.
The rights covered by the Charter are already part of the national constitutions and are defended by the national parliaments, close to the people and their cultures.
Created as "assembly 'by the Cologne Summit, autoproclamó' convention ', a name that unfortunately reminiscent of 1793 and terrorist implications of the French Revolution fulfilled by another Convention.
Turkey, with all its differentiation, always has been and continues to be an integral part of the European reality.
That is why I have to express my scepticism about the outcome.
It is therefore up to NATO to take the provisions which judged necessary for not being able to occur again.
This presence can give a perspective to the overall policy that we continue.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the companies of production, does not take part in this system, preferring the systems that already have: individual savings bank loans, compensation fund.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
We are of the opinion that we must not lie on the trade in the manufacturer's obligations provided for in the legislation relating to the safety of products.
The Mediterranean non-Community countries are, no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to the economic development and regional inequalities acrecientan endlessly.
I would like to highlight one factor, which is quite crucial in this matter; the lack of equality in the workplace.
For several years, as a member of the delegation for relations with Canada, I was able to observe the operation of these regional organisations and OPANO (Organisation for fisheries in the Atlantic Northwest), involving the countries of this region, including Canada, as well as all those who use in this place traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
We are running the risk that, due to the presence of serious risks to the public health problems and the elderly will only be able to recruit a private insurance limited, which is incompatible with social development.
It should be remembered that are currently being discussed a number of regulatory proposals, which will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism, and therefore - so I hope - the confidence of consumers.
The Commission's Food and Veterinary Office gives absolute priority to the controls in the Member States in relation to the measures for protection against BSE.
We should, therefore, to review them.
I agree on the need to better understand the causes of poverty, I support the preventive action against exclusion as a consequence of mergers, industrial changes, relocations, rural desertification, urban hyperconcentration, with innovative and practical measures which involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
This is a problem of legal nature, since, according to the wording of the Treaty, the reference to social exclusion and poverty.
I must say that, listening to you, I am very impresioné by the way in which you have controlled such a difficult situation, and at the same time for his determination.
They manage in the forthcoming Minutes, Mr Watson.
This issue is ambiguous, and it is possible to enter and remain in force more restrictive rules, which is why we have tabled amendments to this point, among others.
Mr President, access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy a good reputation.
The usual way in which cooperation is taking place in the international field with the rules of the game and uses of diplomacy, that is to say, that everything will be carried out with the curtains reductions, does not help in the modern cooperation to which the EU has developed.
Transparency must establish itself as a basic pillar of all the activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente for the completion of transparency.
to eliminate the animal meal in the feeding of all animals, not just in the cattle and sheep, but also of the pigs, poultry and fish.
I believe that it would be sensible to reduce the working hours of those who work in companies that pollute.
The establishment of a genuine democracy in Côte d'Ivoire will not be able to do without the creation of an independent committee of inquiry of the crimes committed and without the formal commitment to respect human rights and civil peace.
This is in many parts of Africa with the various religious and ethnic mixtures.
I think it is odd that we now want maniatar to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of voluntary associations and the additional medical insurance.
Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of a fast-track approach when it comes to implementing the results of the Basel review on the banking capital adequacy.
The group EPP/ED supports the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the powers of the Ombudsman should be extended, and the sooner the better, especially when it comes to the Ombudsman's investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the decision in 1994.
Our colleague, Mr Bösch, has already explained briefly to the amendments that have been made to this report.
The umpteenth interim decision but not precarious, regalito that the Council tends to do in this Parliament.
Those were the ideals that proposed to us and those was the sort of state of working.
We are going to have to make our own assessment of what happened and prepare the documents to contact with the various parties and, of course, with the group of broad representation. "
We will discuss with a single and thankless vote in the WTO.
In our debate today nothing has been said on that aspect of subsidiarity, but it is very important.
It is also in this period, we have kept fully informed of the United States of the progress made in progress in the name of the European security and defence policy, which is a sine qua non for the same to develop in harmony, as is the case at the moment.
That is why its unceasing effort will serve to create an arsenal of weapons of mass disposal very bleak.
Given the scale of the task, was given to four committees and set an unprecedented procedure, with four parallel reports.
Therefore, it would be appropriate if the reform would be the opportunity to limit its intervention only in the areas that do not involve expenditure.
That change of attitude should lead to the transparency of the administration.
The result is known, which has indicated the commitment and the competence of the many members of the Commission and its administration.
We have now a harmonised approach to draw up the country strategy papers and indicative programmes of cooperation in all developing countries.
We must give a clear signal that the waters and European ports will not tolerate vessels that do not comply with the standards.
It is clear to what extent the liberal philosophy is opposed, in fact, to a high level of maritime safety.
Mr President, since the wreck of the oil tanker Erika have been submitted under political pressure a series of measures in order to improve the safety of ships in the sea.
The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, just the opposite.
In a week of the Summit, I personally have hope.
When amending Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend qualified majority voting, which is currently in force in the Council for the trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
On the other hand, the EU would suit to invest the priorities of the Petersberg tasks and address the attention to humanitarian and civilian options.
(The sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
Thank you, Mr Parish.
I have closely examined what the Commissioner said to my colleague, Mr Hume: "There cannot be massive job losses in this sector.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the provisions on summer-time, that there are discussed, is a good proposal.
In fact, I believe that a committee of ethics, in which people work that it does not do this work as the main profession, can give a slightly longer term, but on the authorities to exercise a certain amount of pressure of time to make quickly to work.
In addition, we must take into account that the promotion and prevention and monitoring are going to be increasingly important and, for this reason, we would have to provide them with more budgets and give them more important.
To conclude, the initiative is an important step forward in the creation of a European criminal judicial area, albeit partial and limited, but is a response to the real needs of a huge volume of European citizens that, until now, have been virtually helpless when they have been victims of crime outside the territory of their habitual residence.
What we have asked for this group of people?
Vote on request for urgent procedure
Among the threats, is, as you all know, the climate overheating.
We cannot continue to face the lack of decision-making by qualified majority in the essential issues.
Let me just say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have been left without footballs and this team intends to continue playing until we get the appropriate outcome.
For this to be possible, we will have to set priorities.
In this regard, at the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as Parliament will know, launched a very far-reaching dialogue on energy.
I would like to congratulate the honourable Member once again on his excellent report on a very important issue in the next few years we shall refer - I am sure - in this Parliament.
- (FR) The presidency and several Member States have already received letters from the European Committee of sugar manufacturers concerning the Commission's proposal, which will take into account in its deliberations.
The cooperation contains a number of references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
Tomorrow, we have here the ceremony of the delivery of the Sakharov Prize.
For this reason, the Commission must fulfil by means of an internal reform process your announcement that it will not tolerate the fraud and that each and every one of them is going to be prosecuted accordingly.
I am sure that OLAF has an interest in shaping transparent the selection of senior managers tables.
In the United Kingdom, the regulation of takeover bids, by means of the voluntary code of practice administered by the group responsible for takeover bids has been very good results: a good example of a pragmatic approach to a very complex issue in which legislation would be less appropriate.
The debate is closed.
In addition, it recognises the artist a right to information in order to be aware of their rights within a period of up to three years before the practitioners of traders objects of art, what is reasonable, since it is they who must take the accounts of purchases and sales.
We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, and not tolerate such a situation to develop in the first place.
Thus, the transitional period should be almost fifteen years, never less than 10 and compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of the production of the outermost regions, which must include aid to bodies marketing bananas produced there.
Lehne report (A5-0368/2000)
The Theato report on the fight against fraud to find that the European Central Bank, no doubt to prove better the famous independence, not considered it appropriate to join in the agreement on the Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
The Primarolo group has drawn up a simple rules that it is necessary to apply.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthens one of the key arguments which I put forward in my report on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that, given that it is politically difficult to reach an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we need to look for alternative tools to achieve the same effect, including a rate of emissions.
The Commission considers that these provisions are going in the right direction towards the establishment of fair charging systems, which also incentive a more rational and efficient use of the road network.
I am sorry to say to you, Commissioner, that your reply I am not interested.
If the problems of allowance chronic, moreover, increases the risk of contracting cancer.
We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and these issues have until now been embryonic stage as regards the cities.
The aim must not be to limit or compensation for the damage, but that the primary objective must be to prevent damage to health or the assets of the people.
Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American, Professor George Carlo, to whom the Food and Drugs Administration has entrusted in the last seven years a study on the impact of radiation on human health, showed that there is a risk that the use of mobile phones strengthens the emergence of brain tumours, Alzheimer's disease and injuries in the skin.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
However, I am somewhat solemnly: it is the best that I can accept a Europe that is, in my view, too liberal!
If these consequences have been calculated in my year of birth, in 1944, at the end of the Chicago Agreement, possibly not have agreed an exemption from tax on fuel and other products of aviation.
In my opinion, to accompany automatically, and not as the report concludes, a reduction of European added value.
There is being discussed, but the citizens, based on their knowledge or intuition, turning their attention to the European institutions.
Therefore, it must be able to have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move around and to have the necessary resources to fulfil its mission.
This treatment is exactly the same that we see in Western Europe and the protests, the Minister Zoran Sami Hikmet Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a political and social consensus on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.
When the militants and responsible for these associations would like to meet the day of the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the police around their homes and attending this meeting, are attacked in the street clothes men of civil.
Everyone has enough food, so that if promocionamos a product, of course, do so against the use of another.
Jutta Haug as the rapporteur, that is to say, as a man, and Mr Ferber as the rapporteur, that is to say, as a woman.
