 Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
 This applies both to Latvia and the European Union.
 The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990, and with the current government the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
 That must also apply the European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be a law in the candidate countries in action.
 The political vision remains the same.
 Thirdly: we must do everything in our power to 2003 to prepare the European Union for the enlargement process in the sense of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
 The importance and the extent of the problems raised by enlargement is not incompatible with the double language on which it has been used within the European Union.
 This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of goodwill on the part of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot.
 We must not interfere in these achievements we reached with so many efforts.
 I cannot accept the references in the Parliament Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
 In my own country, to possess a escopeta would need a licence, but not for instalarme as vendor of weapons in a shed, from my own garden.
 Thank you, Commissioner.
 Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions uses on mineral oils and consumption will not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
 The money must be spent in the future more so close to the objectives and more effective, and, of course, also be better to ensure that funds are earmarked for the purpose for which it has allocated by the budgetary authority.
 I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote which will be expressed, but the truth is that we must check the translation of the French version.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
 With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
 With an average of three hours, is the most important human activity, and after the dream for adults, after the work.
 Paciotti, I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources for the clearance of mines.
 Europeans, Madam President, would certainly very inspired if the flight had collected the ball that we launched here as the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
 When it appears that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this European democracies are delayed for only a few days ago.
 On the other hand, the method used seems more debatable.
 On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain sense of powerlessness following certain decisions on mergers, especially in connection with cases where they had need for appealing against the decision of the Commission to the Court of First Instance.
 The Commission has followed and particularly firm action against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
 I must remind you that the vote later, at 12.30 p.m.
 Similarly, when the candidate countries accede, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
 On the one hand, the head of the Israeli Government's decision to freeze the peace negotiations by violence in the region and concentrate its efforts on the creation of a concentration of government with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
 The debate is closed.
 Without this fundamental reference, in the best case we understand each other and, at worst, we kill between us.
 I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute of Florence.
 Unfortunately, the end goal of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
 These two issues are often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council could provide in this area and that, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.
 Despite the fact that, as a Member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this Commission and despite the fact that I have great respect for the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I cannot fail to stress two amendments that our retabling now before the plenary and that remain important though they have reduced the figures.
 The messages in the budget for this year are - as the Commissioner has said. Schreyer- many the restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of structural policy, the monitoring of the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
 And I say so clear and unequivocal: You drone must be given a chance, and I hope that in the next few weeks or months to put in place an amnesty, but, in the meantime, I do want to put conditions at the political and budgetary policies to the implementation of these two new budgetary lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
 The availability of all the institutions involved in the dialogue has given rise to an exemplary cooperation that will enable us, I hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
 Until today, since the Presidency under Delors the setting-up of an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long way and fruitful and who has presided over this Group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans not ultra-peripheral.
 Of course I will inform the President of your speech.
 The reform of the food laws of the European Union will take place at the level of the European Union.
 The EU must have the highest possible food safety for its citizens.
 Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning signal the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
 The distribution of competences and responsibilities.
 Today is to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will ultimately lose the starting point, also in this case.
 SMEs are the main source of employment, both in terms of quality and quantity. Play an essential role in social cohesion and regional planning.
 To that I referred to in the report on the SLIM project, because the Community legislation, and Mr Medina we test with just one reading of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
 The debate is closed.
 We now proceed to the vote.
 Well, I believe that these are matters that lead to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
 (A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the area of the fight against organised crime, the laundering of the products of infringements and crime in financial terms (10213 / 2000 - C5-0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).
 All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I have every confidence that Parliament will approve these amendments.
 I hope that, even if restricted today to give its assent to this letter, this House will make indubitablemente clear in the next few weeks that asks the Council the binding nature of the Charter and that this also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
 What is most important to me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public, a debate on the conditions for the accession of Turkey to the EU, a debate which gives support to those forces in the country reformadoras and promote their development.
 Recommendation Duff / Voggenhuber report (A5-0325 / 2000)
 Therefore, the letter does not proclaim and should be decided at the Nice Council, but that this summit should be encouraged a European debate on it.
 Nor is it acceptable Turkey's role in Cyprus.
 President-in-Office of the Council, Mr moscovici- which says that in order to make progress on the accession of Turkey to the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the issue of Cyprus?
 On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication adopted on 4 October 2000 d on the supply of oil, says that the European Union wants to submit, at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources, which should help to strengthen the efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
 (The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
 The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot ’ s report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, when the Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform of our agricultural policy.
 On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the companies producing, it would take no part in this device, preferring the systems that already have: savings, individual loans, compensation fund.
 Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, which have to do with issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom and I have to say that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, Greens, popular or have defended with great vehemence and approved by the Environment Committee.
 I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
 The Mediterranean non-Community countries face, qué duda cabe, particularly serious problems relating to economic development. Acrecientan regional inequalities are endlessly.
 The Union must make further proposals and consider the enlargement to include Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
 There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there is a lack of comparable detailed statistics in order to be able to establish reliable way of what is in force in each country, and what is dónde- what works better, what are the weaknesses, etc., precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and monetary policy, underlines the need, before legislating Community rules on the supplementary insurance schemes of disease, for the Commission to prepare a Green Paper and sistematice covering all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
 They are also in the sense of compatibility between a public system of distribution systems with private capital and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of investment funds can obtain specific tax advantages in the long term and can help to deal with the problem of ageing.
 Frankly, I was disappointed that the statement made yesterday by Prime Minister Jospin would not have any such recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
 In this regard, I would like to say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
 This is a huge amount.
 I agree on the need to better understand the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of industrial change, mergers, transfers of undertakings, hiperconcentración urban, rural desertification, with speeches innovative and practical which involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
 It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
 On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to show that Europe is capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources through the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
 Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to supervise the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater effectiveness.
 I welcome the fact that Parliament has managed to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
 Mr President, the position of the Commission with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the manual domestic was sent on 11 October the employees of the Commission to report on how we are to handle applications for public access to the documents presented by the members of the European Parliament.
 I believe that we have taken a step forward in the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
 The reason why I would suggest that the vote we refer to is that - as has been pointed out by Mr Goebbels - it is a very important issue.
 It is necessary and urgent to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
 The reservations that I have not been able to express our dear friend and colleague, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, in relation to the issue of human rights.
 Some believe that the relative importance of democracy is when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time, I do not think there is any possible compromise with democracy and the question which is raised today for Ivory Coast is the same as that which arises for example Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
 The vote on her deferring means postponing the task to the Commission.
 I find it strange that the Commission now wants to maniatar towards a proposal for a directive, but at the same time being asked a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and complementary medical insurance.
 This fact first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach which has been giving these regulations on the capital they strengthen the issues relating to risk.
 The starting point of this report is ombudsmann the recommendation of the Commission, in relation to this, which allows the candidates access to their examinations already corrected regarding the selection procedure for the same crime.
 This is also the position defended by the rapporteur and that of the European People's Party shares.
 It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the College has a permanent headquarters.
 Climate change have major consequences in developing countries.
 It is true that its wording could have been better, and may well be perfected and put forward after Nice.
 This is the situation in which we have enfrascado months ago at this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody abandoning their toys.
 - (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay and also my obligations, that we try to make the speech I had prepared.
 Finally, I would like to express my group's concern for the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do all they can to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of winter.
 Russia would, in the long term, to participate in a political Union with an undemocratic regime?
 I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
 Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for the excellent work he has done.
 From my point of view, the world is not a structure which magazine greater significance and fundamental: fifteen States and twenty or more in the future, an entire continent; the more industrialised currently part of the globe, late in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
 This once again now, that is in itself a good framework.
 From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, this could afford, moreover, to discuss with the Member States, an agreement on the basis of the proposals tabled by you, and adopt the text at first reading with qualified majority if necessary.
 I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today, it is important that the Council and Parliament will reflect together on this.
 It is clear to what extent the liberal logic objects, in fact, a high degree of safety at sea.
 Despite that neither the proposal to amend the existing directive on the control of ships or the Watts report correspond to the real needs are steps in the right direction, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
 Rather, it would be a great success for the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, Europe is not a rigid, jerarquizada, remote, but a Europe which is close to the people, flexible and therefore based on respect for national democracies.
 The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU institutions have effective.
 Equally serious is the claim that a state which does not wish to participate in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution that shared out the States participating in this war.
 In the recent past, various scandals and dysfunctions in concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
 Whatever we do, we, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
 Recently in the United States they have earned trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.
 It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives in its entirety in the first report of the Commission.
 It would be more reasonable for the end of summer time at the end of September, some six months of its inception.
 I would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the opposing positions.
 Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what way the developing European policy in the area of public health.
 I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
 Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that human beings should always take responsibility for their actions.
 Provision has been made for a new legal basis for the statute for European political parties, and Parliament is granted the status of complainant institutional laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
 Then, after Nice, look at what comes after, and I hope that you sparking off my great progress with the draft Convention by Belgium for your Presidency, because it has been proved, that there are sheet, there needs to be a change of method, we need to accelerate the story: 2004 is too late, is far too, it is too dangerous.
 This maxim obliges the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as must do all administration.
 That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis recourse to Article 272; they have retained the financial perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
 In the political field, the common strategy for Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism.
 Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
 This directive is of 1992.
 Now, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we must continue to move forward.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work he has done.
 It is clear that the difficulties in Indonesia has not been solved overnight.
 We would like to see Member States opened negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in the area of criminal law, however, we do not want to put our countries to a Federal Prosecutor Community.
 It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that, tormentoso way to overcome some of the difficulties.
 We in the European Parliament that we need to do is to regulate a minimum at European level the big areas which cause tensions in the procurement law, for example, presidency towards shareholders, large or small shareholders against enterprises from the capital market.
 Some of the amendments proposed by Parliament improve still further the text of the Council's common position, because it points to focus their attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and urgently to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
 I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British Post Office.
 Sometimes, it seems as if the Commission, in the proposals of deregulation in the trade and agricultural production at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.
 Already during the 35 years of my life long parliamentary I have always stuck to this rule.
 If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin of decades ago, how can we give a minimum confidence in Mr Putin executioner, of the Chechen people, padrino of the various mafias, which insists on doing away with all kinds of opposition, civil society, trade unions) (parties, in order to reinforce his personal power?
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing garra and capacity of revenue.
 The Primarolo group has drawn up a simple rules which must be applied.
 Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the field of maritime safety.
 Following the criticisms received, particularly in Ireland and France, have now changed the extent and the British Minister of Finance has given a different turn: now is presented as a right of use for rate for all, including the British lorry drivers.
 Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
 Then, also, it transpired that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
 There have been many who have suggested that the budget is too small.
 Finally, if the application of the precautionary principle is to be effective and credible, it is essential for the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation.
 Mr President, the environment and public health are complicated as a machine with a lot of monitoring and control functions to be able to intervene and thus not ruin it.
 In addition, we oppose the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to sell.
 In the really important issues such as taxation, tributos, social policy, asylum and migration, everything is as before.
 But this Parliament also fought for this reduction in the resources for the innovative policies were compensated using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
 All we have to do is to win the trust of the people who live in the rock.
 The competence of the Community, even if some people want something else, this does not cover the classification of ports to carry out work in repair submarines, or matters of safety of nuclear reactors and the technical requirements for a submarine be withdrawn for repair in another place.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak on the joint resolution which we will be voting in favour of course.
 This is exactly the same treatment that we in Western Europe, and to the protests, the Minister hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a social and political consensus on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
 First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for his excellent report.
 We must not pay for certain products which are not demand, nor to propaganda.
