Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
That applies to both Latvia and the European Union.
Acute poverty has been a key problem in Romania since 1990 and under the present government, the economy is at last showing real signs of improvement.
I must say, I personally have been particular impressed with the success of Hungary, Estonia and Slovenia here.
The political vision endures.
Thirdly, we must do our utmost to prepare the European Union for the enlargement process, by 2003, in the spirit of the splendid speech made by President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
The size and breadth of the problems raised by enlargement are incompatible with the duplicitous language that has been used about it within the European Union.
It is not going to be an easy task, given the lack of good will on the part of the Turkish Cypriot side and of Turkey.
Do not meddle with these hard-won gains.
I cannot accept your references in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons and non-formalised groups of persons, as this employment proposal only applies to individuals.
In my own country I would need a licence to own a shotgun but not to set up as an arms broker in my garden shed.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Finally, if duties on mineral oils are laid down at a high level, this does not lead to non-compliance with Community regulations in terms of competition.
In future the money is to be spent in a more targeted and effective manner, and of course we also want a better guarantee that the funds are actually spent for the purposes decided by the budgetary authority.
I trust this will not change the way we vote, but the French translation really must be checked.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
On religion/belief, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection on these grounds.
With viewing averaging three hours per day, it is the most extensive human activity after sleep and - for adults - work.
I would like to take the opportunity to say, in response to Mrs Paciotti' s comment, that naturally I will not hesitate to inquire within the Commission today as to what has become of the funding for mine clearance and what is going to become of it.
Madam President, there is no doubt that Europe would be well advised to seize the opportunity presented to us here by the Chairman of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
When it appears that Milosevic has fled and the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that action to establish normal relations and partnership between Serbia and this Union of democracies will only be days away.
The method used, on the other hand, seems more debatable.
Firstly because, in the course of last year, I was approached on a number of occasions by companies which have felt a certain degree of powerlessness in connection with rulings on mergers, especially in relation to those cases in which they have needed to appeal to the Court of First Instance against the Commission' s ruling.
The Commission has continued to intervene resolutely, particularly where cartels and abuse of a dominating position are concerned.
I would remind you that the vote is to take place at 12-30.
Even once the present candidate countries have joined, each Member State must be able to retain one junior or senior Commissioner.
On the one hand, there is the decision by the head of the Israeli government to put the peace negotiations on hold due to the violence in the area and focus on the creation of a government of national unity with the head of the opposition, Mr Sharon.
That concludes the debate.
Without this fundamental point of reference, at best there is mutual lack of understanding and at worst there is mutual killing.
I shall not continue, as we are not here, or I, at least, am not here, to discuss the Institute' s report.
Unfortunately, the ultimate objective of a European Constitution would be precisely the opposite, and so, of course, we cannot vote for it.
Before you reach your decision on this draft budget, I would like to emphasise that the Council and Parliament share a number of objectives on which agreement could well be reached by our two arms of the budgetary authority.
As much as I, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, appreciate the work undertaken by this committee, and as impressed as I am by the labours of the Committee on Budgets' rapporteurs, as rapporteur for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, it is imperative that I highlight two proposed amendments, which the committee is resubmitting to the plenary, and which are by no means insignificant, despite the small amounts involved.
As Commissioner Schreyer has already mentioned, there are many political announcements coming out of this year' s Budget: the reorganisation of agricultural policy, new structural programmes, measures to ensure better implementation of the structural policy, and steps designed to follow up the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit for creating a stronger and more competitive EU and for combating social exclusion.
And I am telling you loud and clear: Kostunica must be given his chance here and I therefore hope that he will give amnesty in the next couple of weeks or months, but meanwhile, I do want the introduction of those two new budget lines, democratisation and reconstruction, to be accompanied by political conditions, both from a political and budgetary perspective.
The willingness of all the institutions concerned to discuss the matter resulted in exemplary cooperation which, it is my fervent hope, will make it possible for us to reach a consensus at the first reading.
So far, since an interdepartmental group was set up for the outermost regions under the presidency of Mr Delors, we have travelled a long and fruitful road, and I must express the deepest gratitude of the Europeans from the outermost regions to those who have presided over that group.
I will, of course, inform the President of what you have said.
The reform of European Union food laws would be carried out at the level of the European Union.
The EU must have the highest possible standards of food safety for its citizens.
Two kilometres away from a hamlet in Bosnia, in 1999, a sign indicated the presence of mines in a field, but this did not stop a little boy going there.
the allocation of powers and responsibilities.
It is now attempting to prevent reinforced cooperation being made more flexible, but here too it will eventually lose.
SMEs are the major source of job creation, in terms of both quality and quantity, and they play a crucial role in social cohesion and regional planning.
I referred to this in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation - and Mr Medina has just proved it by reading out one of the articles of the Treaty - is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
Well, I believe that these matters go to the very heart of the fundamental principles of the freedom associated with European law, particularly the freedom of movement, and no exceptions can be made to these principles.
by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, in particular in the area of combating organised crime, laundering of the proceeds from crime and financial crime [10213/2000 - C5-0394/2000 - 2000/0815].
These things are in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I am very hopeful that Parliament will vote for them.
I hope that, even though it can only say yes to this Charter of Fundamental Rights, Parliament will clearly apprise the Council of its demand for this Charter to be made legally binding over coming weeks, so that it can open the way to the European Court of Justice for the citizens of Europe.
The most important thing, as far as I am concerned, is that Helsinki triggered a debate in Turkey, a public debate on the conditions of Turkey's accession to the EU, a debate which is supporting and bolstering the forces of reform in Turkey.
Duff/Voggenhuber recommendation.
It should not therefore be decided and proclaimed at the Council summit in Nice; on the contrary, the summit should prompt a European debate on the Charter.
Turkey' s role in Cyprus is also unacceptable.
And what is his opinion of Mr Cem's position - the President-in-Office did not reply here - that there can be no link-up between the Cyprus question and furthering the Accession Partnership between Turkey and the European Union?
Furthermore, in the communication adopted on 4 October 2000 on the European Union' s oil supply, the Commission indicated that, at the European Council of Göteborg, it was planning to present a plan to save energy and to promote the diversification of energy sources, which should help to boost energy efficiency, especially in buildings and transport.
The sitting was suspended at 6-55 pm and resumed at 9-00 pm.
The extra EU subsidy proposed in Mr Garot' s report would, in my view, be quite unreasonable in a year such as this when, with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement to include Central and Eastern Europe, we are to reform agricultural policy.
On the one hand, the largest producers, or those integrated with processing industries downstream, would distance themselves from this measure, preferring the systems they already have: individual savings; bank loans and redistribution funds.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, deal with questions that basically concern the United Kingdom, and it must be said that all the groups from the United Kingdom, whether socialist, popular or green, have supported them vehemently and they have been approved in the Committee on the Environment.
I do not think they are incompatible.
The Mediterranean countries which do not belong to the ÅU have to cope with particularly acute problems of economic development and regional inequalities are becoming more and more marked.
The Union must be more proactive and treat enlargement to include Turkey as a vital geopolitical strategy.
However, there are huge differences between one country and another and we have no detailed or comparable statistics to help us ascertain reliably what applies where, what works best, where the weaknesses lie etc, which is precisely why my opinion, which was drafted on the instructions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, stresses the need, before any generally-applicable rules are introduced for supplementary health insurance, for the Commission to submit a Green Paper containing an analysis of all these separate issues, together with the relevant information.
They are also moving towards making a public pay-as-you-go scheme compatible with private pre-funding schemes, and of course they are also compatible with support for the setting up of specific investment funds, which may obtain long-term tax advantages and may help to deal with the ageing problem.
I was, frankly, disappointed that there was no acknowledgement in Prime Minister Jospin's statement yesterday of the hugely positive role played by the Community in recent years.
On this subject, I want to point out that those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party have tabled an amendment I hope will be voted through.
This is an enormous figure.
I support the need to gain more knowledge about the causes of poverty and I also support preventative action against exclusion resulting from mergers, industrial change, relocations, rural desertification, and urban ghettoisation, with innovative and tangible responses involving both sides of industry, local and national government and concerted action by the public.
There cannot be any doubt that the issue of Kosovo's status is a democratic issue.
On the other hand, we would like to be given a chance to prove to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia on our own, by recognising the genuine principles of democracy.
Access to documents and information regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the EU governing bodies accountable and stimulates greater efficiency.
It is gratifying that Parliament has succeeded in producing a large majority in favour of more openness.
Mr President, the Commission' s attitude to the right of access to documents may be seen from the internal handbook sent on 11 October to employees of the Commission to tell them how to deal with requests from MEPs for access to documents.
In my opinion, a step has been taken towards making it possible for citizens to avail themselves of their right to information and knowledge.
The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is because - as Mr Goebbels has said - it is a very important issue.
It is crucial that we go further and promote a change in the common agricultural policy.
I do not share the reservations expressed by our honourable Member, the Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with the Countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, with regard to the issue of human rights.
Some people believe democracy is only of relative importance when it comes to Africa, that democratic procedures are a complex matter, that we have to give it time, but I personally believe that there can be no compromise with democracy and the question that arises for Côte d' Ivoire today is the same one that arises for Guinea, for example, where we now know that there are people in prison and that the system is not democratic.
Postponing the vote would mean postponing the task we entrust to the Commission.
I find it rather odd that people are already trying to tie the Commission's hands in relation to the proposal for a directive, while at the same calling on it to present a Green Paper on the current situation with regard to optional and supplementary health insurance schemes.
Having made this initial comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators are also satisfied with the approach adopted towards these regulations on capital, which help deal with the issues related to risk.
Accordingly, the point of departure of this report was the recommendation by the Ombudsman to the Commission to give applicants access to their own marked examination scripts during the selection procedure it organised.
This is also the position advocated by the rapporteur, and it is shared by the European People' s Party.
The majority of those who have spoken so far seem to think that it is vital to have a single permanent seat for the college.
Climate change has a huge impact on the developing countries.
It certainly could have been worded better, and, indeed, it can be honed and polished after Nice.
This, quite simply, is the situation in which we have been stuck for months at the Intergovernmental Conference, because none of them are willing to give up their toys.
Mr President, given our late start and my commitments afterwards, I shall try to make the speech that I had prepared a little shorter.
Finally, I want to express my group' s considerable concern about the ever worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do all they can to increase their efforts to achieve a peaceful solution and to support the civilian population, especially now before the winter sets in.
Does Russia, in the long term, want to be in political union with a non-democratic régime?
Pursuant to Rule 42 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I have received a motion for a resolution to end this debate.
Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
As I see it, there is no structure of greater importance or substance in the world: 15 nations, soon to become 20 or more, an entire continent; the most industrialised part of the globe thrives in the Union and, therefore, in the Commission through its structures.
We will come back to that later because that in itself constitutes a sound framework.
This may also enable the Council Presidency to have discussions with the Member States with a view to obtaining the Council' s approval of your proposals and to adopting the text at first reading, if necessary by qualified majority voting.
I believe that some rethinking will certainly have to be done between the Council and Parliament on the liability limit for classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today.
In measurable terms, the liberal rationale is effectively opposed to a high level of maritime safety.
Although the proposal to amend the current Directive on ship inspections and the Watts report fall far short of what is actually required, they are a step in the right direction and the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece have therefore voted in favour of the report.
Rather, it would be a great success, as the Europe we need on the eve of enlargement is not a supranational Europe which is inflexible, hierarchical and remote, but a Europe which is flexible and close to its people, therefore founded in respect for national democracies.
The most important task in Nice is to ensure that the EU has effective institutions.
Equally serious is the intention that any State that does not wish to take part in a mission should be required to pay a financial contribution to be divided up among the States participating in that war.
In the still recent past, various scandals and inefficiencies resulted in the resignation of the European Commission in March 1999.
Whatever the case, let us have a vote on it, and, personally, I support a resolution along the lines suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr Lannoye and others.
Cases have recently been won in the United States against the tobacco multinationals for poisoning people and lying about the toxicity of their products.
It would be preferable to wait until the overall question of additives is dealt with in the first Commission report.
It would be reasonable to end summer time at the end of September, approximately six months after it starts.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reach a compromise.
Madam President, subsequent to the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European public health programmes, I wish to express my concern at the direction in which European policy in the field of public health is developing.
I understand that the Council has also signalled its agreement in principle.
We must never stray from the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their own actions, either at the level of the Member State or at EU level.
A new legal basis has been laid down for the status of European political parties and Parliament has been given the status of institutional plaintiff laid down under Article 230 of the Treaty.
So let us forget about Nice now, and think about post-Nice -and you will forgive me if I pin my hopes on the plan for a grand convention advanced by Belgium for its Presidency, because the evidence is there, we must do something new, we must change the method, we must accelerate history: 2004 is too late, it is too far off, it is too dangerous.
These maximum levels force the Commission to set priorities within the confines of a budget, in the way that every government has to.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis by going to Article 272; the financial perspective has been maintained, even though we have used the flexibility instrument.
In the political sector, the common strategy towards the Russian Federation proposes entering into a standing dialogue on policy and security and creating a permanent mechanism for such dialogue.
Do you intend to support a project such as this, Commissioner Patten?
This directive dates from 1992.
This authority must now be set up, and I think the European authorities have now become very aware of the issue, and that we must forge ahead.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent job she has done.
It is clear that Indonesia's difficulties will not be solved overnight.
We welcome negotiations between the Member States concerning uniform legislation in the area of crime, but we shall not submit our countries to a federal EU prosecution authority.
It is a proposal that has gone down a long and, I fear, stormy road in order to overcome some of the existing problems.
Here in the European Parliament we are chiefly concerned with finding minimum European rules to regulate the major fields of tension in take-over law, for instance the boards against the shareholders, large shareholders against small ones, companies against the stock market.
Some of the amendments proposed by Parliament further improve the text of the Council' s common position because they highlight points that could lead to interpretation difficulties and push for speedier transposition of the directive.
I remind my Conservative MEP colleagues of the mess they got into in the UK when they tried to privatise the British post office.
It sometimes seems as though the Commission, in its proposals on deregulation in international trade and agricultural production, has gone even further than the Cairns Group.
In my long parliamentary career, which has now spanned 35 years, I have always adhered to this principle.
If it is right to denounce the Stalinist dictatorship of the past, how is it possible to have the slightest confidence in Mr Putin, the executioner of the Chechen people, the godfather of the various mafias and the man who endeavours to eliminate all opposition in civil society unions, political parties in order to strengthen his personal power?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are becoming ineffective and are yielding less and less revenue.
The Primarolo group has devised simple rules which must be applied.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuing commitment in the field of maritime safety.
That was changed in the face of criticism, especially from Ireland and France, and a different spin has now been put on it by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer: it is now being portrayed as a user charge for all, including British lorry drivers.
Additives other than colours and sweeteners.
It then also transpired that the Commission did not have the right tools to tackle the problem adequately.
Many have suggested that the budget is too small.
Finally if the precautionary principle is to be applied effectively and credibly, it is vital to involve all key stakeholders, including representatives of civil society in the policy choices that surround its application.
Mr President, the environment and public health are like a complex machine with many functions that we monitor and check in order to be able to intervene to make sure that things do not go wrong.
Moreover, we are highly critical of the over-production of agricultural produce and of the use of information funds by the EU to sell this surplus.
In the really important areas such as taxes, public levies, social policy, asylum and immigration, the old order has evidently survived.
The House had also fought, however, for the reduction of the funds available for innovative measures to be offset by means of resources from the flexibility instrument, a demand which is recorded in a declaration on the financial perspective in the Interinstitutional Agreement.
All they have to do is to gain the confidence of the Gibraltarian people who live on the Rock.
Community competence, however much some people may wish it otherwise, does not extend to the classification of ports to carry out repair work on submarines, questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and requirements on a submarine to be removed for repair elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words on the joint resolution, which will, of course, be passed.
This treatment would be exactly like we see in Western Europe and, faced with the protests, the Minister Hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer so that a social and political consensus upon prison reform be developed throughout Turkey.
First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Dary on his good report.
No special payments must be made for products for which there is no demand, and the latter must not be advertised.
