Our statement of rights is first of this millennium.
This applies both to Latvia as to the European Union.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990, and with the present government of the economy, finally, is a real signs of improvement.
They must also be implemented the European Community law is not only law in the books, but must also be in the candidate countries law in action.
The political vision remains the same.
Third: we must do everything in our power to draw up until the end of 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process in the direction of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
The importance and the extent of the problems that enlargement is not we sympathise with the double language on it is used within the European Union.
This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of good will in the Turkish part of Cyprus and Turkey.
We should not interfere in these achievements that we reached with so many efforts.
I cannot accept the references to the Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to the natural and legal persons is, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
In my own country, to have a heart it would need a licence, but it does not stop to set up to me as a seller of weapons in junk of my garden.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Finally, the establishment of a high level of the contributions of use and consumption on mineral oils should not lead to a not-fulfillment of Community provisions on competition.
The money is to be spent in the future even more suited to the objectives and more efficient, and, of course, it is also necessary to guarantee better than the funds are used for the purposes for which it has allocated by the budgetary authority.
I would like that do not change the outcome of the vote which will be expressed, but the truth is that we need to check the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
with an average of three hours a day, it is the most important human activity after the dream, and for adults, after the work.
paciotti, I can assure you that, today, I will ask the Commission what has happened and what it takes is going to happen to the media for the removal of mines.
European, Madam President, without a doubt, would be very inspired if they are included in the flight the ball that the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council sent to us here.
When it seems that Milosevic had fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the measures to establish an association and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies are only delayed days.
However, the method used is more debatable.
On the one hand, over the past year, I have received several requests of companies that have felt a certain powerlessness as a result of certain decisions on mergers, above all in relation to cases where they have needed to appeal to the decision of the Commission to the Court of First Instance.
The Commission has continued to act very firm and against the cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
I have to point out to the honourable Member that the vote will be held later, 12-30 pm.
Also, when the candidate countries join, each Member State must be able to maintain assistant or main a Commissioner.
In part, the decision of the heads of the government of Israel to freeze the peace negotiations on the violence in the region and to concentrate its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration with the leader of the opposition.
The debate is closed.
In the absence of this fundamental point of reference, in the best case scenario, we fail to understand, and, in the worst, we killing ourselves between us.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here -, to debate the report by the Institute of Florence.
Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
These are two often recurring themes in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and which could set standard, if care is taken to tension between the two branches of the budgetary authority.
But, as a Member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this committee and, in spite of the great respect, that is to say the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I do not wish to dwell on two amendments which the Commission will present / have now before the House, and that they are still important, even if they have reduced the figures.
The political messages in this year's budget are - as the restructuring of the common agricultural policy, the new structural programmes have said to the Commissioner schreyer- many, to ensure better implementation of the structural policy, the monitoring of the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit on the creation of a strong EU more and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
And I say to them in a clear and unambiguous way: to Kostunica, we must provide an opportunity to you, and I hope that in the next few weeks or months it is implemented in an amnesty, but in the meantime, what I want at political and budgetary level political conditions to the implementation of these two new budget lines are set, that is to say, democracy and reconstruction.
The availability of the dialogue between all the institutions concerned have given rise to an exemplary cooperation that will enable us, I hope very much for that, to reach a consensus at first reading.
So today, since, under the chairmanship of Mr Delors the interservicios for the outermost regions was created, we have travelled a long and fruitful way and that this European Group has presided over, I must express the deep appreciation of the ultra-peripheral ones.
Of course I will inform the President of your speech.
The reform of food legislation in the European Union will be carried out at the level of the European Union.
The EU must have the highest possible level of food security for its citizens.
two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field as a signal reminder of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities.
Today, it is trying to prevent the relaxation of strengthened cooperation, and will end up losing the game, in this case too.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, both in quality and in amount they play an essential role in social cohesion and regional planning.
To that even referred to in the report on the SLIM project, because the Community legislation, and Mr Medina Ortega us just this test with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, is scarcely comprehensible, for the experts.
The debate is closed.
We will now proceed to the vote.
Well, I believe that these issues will lead to the heart of associated with the fundamental principles of freedom to European law, in particular the freedom of movement, and exceptions to these principles can be done.
by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of an agreement on the improvement of judicial assistance in criminal matters, particularly in the area of the fight against organised crime, the laundering of products of infringements and crime in financial terms - 10213 / 2000 - C5-0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815.
All these points are set out in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I am fully confident that the European Parliament will adopt these amendments.
I hope that, even if today it is limited to giving its approval to this letter, this House is going to leave indubitablemente clear in the next few weeks, the compulsory nature of the Charter asks the Council and that it also includes the possibility of recourse to the European Court of Justice.
The most important thing for me is that from Helsinki has started in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey's accession to the EU, a debate which supports the reformadoras forces of the country and to promote their development.
Duff / Voggenhuber recommendation.
Therefore, the Charter should not be allowed to decide and to state at the Nice Council, but that at this summit would be to promote a European debate on it.
The role of Turkey in Cyprus is not acceptable either.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr moscovici- who says that to make progress on the accession of Turkey to the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication adopted the d 4 October 2000 on the oil supply in the European Union says that it intends to present / show, at the Gothenburg European Council a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources, which should help to strengthen the energy efficiency, especially in the buildings and transport.
The sitting was suspended at 6-55 pm and resumed at 9 pm.
The proposed Community extra aid to Mr Garot's report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, when, with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform of our agricultural policy.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are part of the production companies, would not participate in this mechanism, to favour the systems that have already: individual savings bank loans, compensation fund.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, has to do with questions that relate primarily to the United Kingdom, and I have to say that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are socialist, popular or green, they have defended them with great passion, and they have been approved by the Committee on the environment.
I believe that the conflict between the Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37, does not exist.
The non-Community Mediterranean countries face, it is no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to the economic development of the regional inequalities are increased unimpeded.
The European Union must do more proposals and to take account of enlargement to Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
Major differences between the various countries of the Union have been recorded, however, and lack comparable statistics detailed to be able to state of reliable way what is in force in each country, what is - and where what etc work better, what are the weak points - as, in fact, in my opinion, drawn up by order of the Committee on Economic and monetary policy, highlights the need to legislate Community rules on the supplementary insurance of disease, that the Commission is preparing a Green Paper, which takes up and systematizes all these now dispersed data and all the reports on the subject.
They are also in order to make a public system of distribution is compatible with private capitalisation systems and, of course, they are compatible with support for the creation of specific investment funds, which can in the long term, achieve fiscal advantages and that can help to deal with the problem of the ageing population.
Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday Prime Minister Jospin was no recognition of the positive role played by the Community over the last few years.
In this regard, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has made / displayed an amendment which I hope it will be approved.
This is an enormous amount.
I agree on the need to know the industrial causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, change, the relocation of companies, rural desertification, urban hyperconcentration better, innovative and practical measures which involve local and national involvement of the social partners, governments and the joint action of the citizens.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro in Yugoslavia by our own resources, through the recognition of genuine principles of democracy.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to control the control systems in the EU and encourages greater effectiveness.
I welcome the fact that Parliament has managed to create a broad majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, the position of the Commission with regard to the public access to the documents may be in manual internal who was sent on 11 October to the officials of the Commission to inform them of how to manage the demands of public access to documents published / displayed by the members of the European Parliament.
I believe that a step forward has been taken to the exercise of the right of the citizen to the information and knowledge.
The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as was pointed out by Mr Goebbels - this is a very important issue.
It is necessary and urgent to go further: to bring about a change in the common agricultural policy.
I do not have the reservations that have been able to express our colleague and friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, as far as the question of human rights.
Some people think that importance of democracy is concerned, when it comes to Africa, which they are complex procedures, which are necessary to give time for the time I believe, however, that there is no commitment to democracy and the question today for the Ivory Coast, it is the same as the one that takes account of, for example, for Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is no democratic system.
The vote on its delay means to delay the order to the Commission.
It seems strange to me that it is now, I would like to maniatar to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but that at the same time, it calls for a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and the additional medical insurance.
This first comment, I would like to point out that I believe that the economic operators also take into account the satisfactory approach that has been given to these regulations on the capital that they strengthen the issues relating to the risk.
The starting point of this report is the recommendation of the Ombudsman to the Commission, in relation to the previous point, which make it possible for the candidate countries access to their examinations already corrected regarding the procedure for selecting organised by the same.
This is also the position defended by the rapporteur, and that the European People's Party shares.
It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far, I think that it is essential that the Commission has a permanent seat.
The climate changes have major consequences for the developing countries.
It is true that the text could have been better, and it could well be upgraded and be made after Nice.
This is the situation in which we have been engaged for months in the Intergovernmental Conference, and the result is that nobody resigned to their children.
Mr President, in view of the delay, which we also take and my responsibilities, I shall try to be brief in the speech I had prepared.
Finally, a worse situation in Afghanistan, I would like to express my group's concern for every time and to urge the Commission and the Council to do everything it can to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of the winter.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political Union with an undemocratic regime?
I have received a motion for a resolution, pursuant to Rule 42 5 of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
From my point of view, in the world, a structure does not have this magazine a larger and fundamental importance: fifteen Member States and, in the future, 20 or more, an entire continent are a part of the world at the moment more industrialised barks in the Union and, through it, in the Commission, by means of its structures.
We will return to this now, because it is a good framework in itself.
From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, that would enable us, on the other hand, to discuss with the Member States, an agreement on the basis of the proposals announced / displayed by you, and to adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority, if necessary.
I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, it is important that the Council and Parliament return to reflect together on this.
It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is against, in fact, to a high degree of maritime safety.
But neither the proposal for the amendment of the existing directive on the control of ships or the Watts report respond to the real needs, they give to certain passages in positive; the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece have therefore voted in favour of the report.
It would be rather a great success, since Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a Europe rigid, hierarchical, remote, but a Europe that is flexible and closer to the people, therefore, based on respect for the national democracies.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU has effective institutions.
It also serious is the claim that a State that does not want to participate in a mission will be forced to pay a financial contribution will distribute States participating in that war.
In the recent past, various scandals and failures of operation concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
Let us do what we do, we will vote, and I am in favour of a resolution, as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr Prodi.
recently in the United States trials against the tobacco multinationals have gained to poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of products.
It would be better to wait until the issue of additives has dealt with as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
It would be more justified than summer-time completed at the end of September, some six months of its implementation.
I would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, for his report and to thank him for his efforts to reconcile the opposing positions.
Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what way is the European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
Never, at the level of the Member States or in the Community, it is necessary to make the basic principle of the people must always take responsibility for their actions.
A new legal basis for the statute for European political parties has been planned, and to the House the status of planned institutional plaintiff in Article 230 of the Treaty is granted to him.
Then we can forget Nice, let us look at which come later, and I would like you to feed my hope with the project on broad agreement made by Belgium for your Presidency, as is shown, it is necessary to make a clean break and it is new, it is necessary to change of method, it is necessary to speed up history: 2004 is much too late, are too far and are too dangerous.
This maxim is forcing the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, and every government must do.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis recourse to Article 272 does the financial perspectives have been, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia is proposing to enter into a permanent dialogue on and security policy and to establish a permanent mechanism for it.
Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
This directive is of 1992.
Now, it is necessary to set up this authority, and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to move forward.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work he has done.
It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
We would like the Member States to open negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in the field of criminal law, however, we do not want to put our countries a Community Federal Office of the European public prosecutor.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I am afraid that dizzying, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
In the European Parliament, what we must do is to regulate a minimum form in the European area large areas which cause tension in the right of purchases, for example, the Presidency in front of shareholders, major shareholders in front of small companies or in the face of the capital market.
A number of the amendments proposed by Parliament to further improve the text of the common position of the Council, as a result, its points focus on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and that they are urgent to a faster processing of the directive.
I would remind you of my Conservative colleagues involved in which they put in the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British postal services.
Sometimes, it seems as if the Commission, in the proposals of deregulation in the trade and agricultural production at international level, without even further than the Cairns Group.
During the 35 years of my long political life, I have always adhered to this legislation.
If it is right to condemn the dictatorship of Stalin of a few decades ago, how is it possible to be given to a minimum of confidence to Mr Putin, yardstick of the Chechen people, the godfather of the various mafias, that it insists on removing all kinds of opposition, civil society - political, trade unions, parties), to strengthen their personal power?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the European Union are losing real teeth and capacity of collection.
the Primarolo group group has drawn up a simple rules that are required.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his continued commitment in the field of maritime safety.
As a result of the criticisms we have received, particularly in Ireland and France, the measure changed and now the British Minister of Finance has given a different turn him: now it is presented as a levy on right of employment for all, including those of the British lorry drivers.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners.
Then, it was also found that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to take appropriate action.
These have been many who have suggested that the budget is too small.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle is to be effective and credible, it is essential to the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in the political decisions regarding their application.
Mr President, the environment and public health are like a complex machine with a lot of jobs that we look at and we managed to be able to take part, and that does not sit.
In addition, we oppose the agricultural overproduction, and the use of resources allocated to information to sell them.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, everything will continue as before.
But this Parliament also fought to ensure that this reduction in the resources for innovative policies was compensated for using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budgetary provision.
All they have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live on the rock.
The competence of the Community, no matter how much some people want something else, includes the classification of ports to carry out repair work in submarines, neither questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine has withdrawn to repair them in another place.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in favour of the joint resolution on which we shall vote.
This is exactly the same treatment that we see in Western Europe, and before the protests, Minister hikmet Mr Turco has postponed the transfer to a political and social consensus is reached on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary, for her excellent report.
It is not necessary to pay for certain products which are not required, or do propaganda to them.
