The divided house racial of Europe
A common feature of the extreme right in Europe is its racism and their use the issue of immigration as a political force.
The Lega Nord in Italy, the Vlaams Blok of Holland, supporters of the national Front of Le Pen in France, are examples of parties and movements trained from the common theme of the aversion to immigrants and the promotion of policies simplistic to monitor them.
Although individuals as Jorg Haidar and Jean Marie Le Pen come and (never too early van), the issue of the race will not go away of European policy nowhere near.
The population increasingly old at home and borders more open than ever, involve a fragmentation racial in European countries.
The main parties in centre left and centre right have faced this prospectus burying its head in the land, have false hopes that the problem disappear.
It will not, as clearly shows the racial history of United States (USA).
Race relations in the US have been at the centre of the political debate for decades, and still are, to the extent that the racial cracks are just as important as the accession, if not more, as determinants preferences attitudes and policies.
The first step to confront the racial policy is to understand the origin and the consequences of the racial animosity, even if it means develar unpleasant truths.
That is precisely what a great deal of research into economy, sociology, psychology and political science has made to the US.
This research shows that the people of different race rely much less each other; the whites are not prepared to support expenditure on welfare because it considers that favours minorities communities; more fragmented racialmente governments have less efficient, more corruption and patronage, more crime and less public goods productive per dollar taxes.
This does not mean that the answer is to remove the heterogeneity and communities create create create, but we need to recognise the reality of such issues to begin to build public policies for sound race relations.
Of course, the Americans do not agree on how to do this.
Some encourage action programmes yes to give priority to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to school and the granting of public contracts.
These policies are regarded as a form of offer repair by past injustices and, more important than that, to create figures model (role models) and move beyond the residual discrimination and perhaps involuntarily.
Others are opposed to the affirmative action and argue that a policy blind to races, together with the policies of free market and values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create work for minorities and help maintain linked to the black families.
The latter is crucial for any policy, because one of the major causes of poverty in the US is the spread of homes parents of other words of single mothers) in the black community.
Whatever the right response, the point is that determine what to do about races is a dominant theme in the American policy.
Of course, minorities have made progress on the path towards greater integration and economic success.
In the 1950s blacks could not sit in front section of buses today two people's most important external policy American are black.
Without doubt, American politicians right-wing continue to use the letter ' as a tool tactics.
Let us consider the case of Patrick Buchanan, the exasistente of Nixon and that Reagan was presidential candidate independent in the last elections.
He published a book which took recently acceptance, entitled "the death of the West: how Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasion Imperil our country and civilization" (the death of the West: how people the amendments the invasion of immigrants endanger our country and civilisation).
But for every book and that there is another ten offered by a serious analysis of the issues racial in the US.
The analysis of policies and the debates on race relations are very late in Europe.
For how much these matters are not so open, in terms of immigration quotas and border restrictions, not in terms of social problems and opportunities created by a Europe that is becoming more racialmente mixed.
Of course we must have a clear immigration policy to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.
But this cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico is not the end of US policy towards the problems racial household!
Europe is rich and is old quickly; Europeans, well-off generous in programmes well-being, are no longer prepared to accept work ' in , say, agriculture or fur industry.
This makes it impossible to avoid an increase in immigration.
Europeans, however, are ready to criticise US for any failure in its policy for minorities and for any demonstration of racism across the Atlantic.
When I read the European press one often sees the complex superiority towards US regarding matters racial: them, the Americans have problems with racism; we are immune, except for desbocados the skinheads the people in the style.
What has happened in recent weeks, from Paris to Amsterdam, shows that the problem racial in Europe is much deeper and, as in the US, originates in the sad truth that relations of races are inherently difficult and confidence and behaviour not cooperative cooperative cooperative through the racial lines.
If the main parties in Europe do not invest more seriously in the understanding of the racial tensions in Europe and put to the "race" as one of its top priorities, individuals as Le Pen certainly will try to fill the gap with its message of hatred.
Against the French exceptions
The attention of Europe today is focused, quite rightly, enlargement and the Constitution that the members of the EU are constructed.
But the result of several Gallic clashes with the European Commission will not be less important to determine the fate of the new and enlarged Europe.
France has decided to ignore, unilaterally, the Pact for stability and growth, the incur a deficit planned well over the limit of 3% of GDP.
The French likes proclaim rigour rational your thinking, but in terms of deficits, yielding discards its place at the obfuscation.
France was among the main critical of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish Government reduced surplus its its its that then was 4% of GDP, in just 0,5%.
Other countries have violated the Stability Pact, but France is the first to do so with an open attitude of presumptuous challenge.
None of this should sorpender anyone.
France is simply applying to the rules of the EU as their innate habit of seeing their own culture and exceptional.
For example, France consistent provision prohibits reforms to the common agricultural policy of the EU.
As you know even children, the CAP is a beautiful and quite unwarranted gift for European farmers rich paricularmente (the French) at the expense of the atribulados farmers in developing countries and of consumers in the EU.
France is also trying to return to the old policies rescue, with taxpayers' money, private companies profitable not to point of collapse.
The Commissioner for competition policy of the EU, Mario Monti, cannot miss this battle: it needs the support of those who believe in markets and equal treatment for all.
Here, the case is simple.
The French Government thinks rescue Alstom, a company which developed a series of high-tech products, including the TGV, the train rapid French, but that was recently.
The French government maintains that never return in its plan to rescue Alstom, a plan with all motivations the amendments: the maintain employment, protect investment, etc.
Furthermore, as Alstom is a company high-tech, the French Government resorts to the pretext of research and development, stating that are good for growth.
Rescue Alstom through the nationalisation of the company obviously wrong.
The company consists of various parties, some lucrative some bankrupt: the obvious is dividing us.
The lucrative components, such as the TGV, you will find buyers easily; plants unproductive had to be closed down.
The money of the French taxpayer would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers in subsidies to keep alive a plant not lucrative.
It is important that the European Commission does not allow France apply special rules in competition policy, as seems to be doing with their deficits presupuestales.
The Commission must prevent give public assistance to private companies in France, as it does with subsidies of this kind in any other Member State of the EU.
The Commission has already had some successes in this area, between the analysis have forced the German Government to cancel government guarantees for the public banks.
In particular, Alstom and France in general, must not be the exception and must be limited to the same standards.
If the Commission does not act, the EU will find it even more stock of diversiones servants French.
France has always played a leading role in the foreign policy of the EU, and the minister for foreign affairs, Dominique de Villepin, it is becoming more and more and more acts as the Foreign Minister of Europe.
At the same time, France violates basic rules of the common economic policy and public aid to private companies.
Does the European Commission will lose what remains of credibility finally looks like a small arrondissement Parisian?
A defeat in the Alstom case would have serious consequences in Europe (and not only in terms of competition policy).
The war for oil
For decades, through administrations democrats and Republican, the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: to maintain world prices of oil as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons in the way less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
Despite appearances, none of these objectives has changed under the Bush administration.
Many observers believe that Bush has established a new direction because the invasion of Iraq apparently runs counter to these objectives.
A significant increase in the production of Iraqi oil probably increase dependence of the EU towards oil, in relation to other energy sources, since world prices of oil perhaps would be abolished as a response to the increase in the supply.
This in turn would mean an increase in dependence of the EU towards the oil imported, particularly in the Middle East.
However, the irony is that the EU exercised greater control over the oil sector Iraqi under the "oil for food" programme of the UN, into force before the war (in which this organisation, not Saddam Hussein and identified the level of sales of Iraqi oil to the outside world), of which will be under a democratic Iraq in the future.
If the Bush administration had been seeking sources of oil stable, secure diversified and cheap simply, lifted, embargos against Libya, Iran, Iraq and Sudan, to enable the fluyera oil.
But the interests of the United States in the Iraqi oil was not driven by the economy or energy policy.
The Bush administration recognised that, first of all, the Iraqi oil is a resource geopolitical critical.
Who controls the Iraqi oil will take control of Iraq.
The power of Saddam was its control over the second largest reserves of oil in the world.
Understood perfectly well what oil meant for their power.
Given the possibility of the invasion and defeat Saddam, threatened to incendiar deposits tankers in the country.
Much of the destruction and the plundering of installations oil were after reflects that everyone understands that control oil means controlling Iraq.
When EU was planning its invasion, safeguard the oil deposits became a priority criticism.
The aim was not to increase the supply or reduce prices for the Americans, but deprive Saddam their power and, in the long term, to establish a new and strong Iraqi government.
The future of Iraq is directly dependent upon the fate of the oil production in the country.
However, the whims of business tankers, especially in conditions so unstable not, clearly, how can the Bush Administration achieve its goals in Iraq in the near future.
The logic is simple.
The EU must use the revenue from oil to take taxpayers American the burden of funding the regime change in Iraq.
All the reconstruction projects depend, in the long term, the ability of Iraq to export large quantities of oil.
If Iraq does not delivery oil, President Bush will be able to fulfil its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and the global community.
Before the invasion, production capacity Iraqi oil reached the three million barrels per day.
Iraq will not be able to recover this level during the time needed to establish a new government.
Any increase in the production requires the development of the oil fields, which means large investments, a legal government and representative, and political stability.
Even the Bush Administration hopes that these conditions are met soon.
In fact, political stability is the main condition to increase the production capacity.
The historical evidence of Iran, Kuwait, Russia, and even the same Iraq, indicate that are needed around three years since the restoration of political stability so that capacity will increase significantly and maintain a high level.
Iraq needs several years to draw up a new constitution, to establish a legitimate government and democratic negotiate the distribution of income tankers between their regions, implementing laws of investment and to the economy to be attractive to foreigners.
It also needs time to negotiate with the international oil companies and with its neighbouring countries, to carry out studies and technical feasibility, and to rebuild, rehabilitate and explore their oil deposits.
Thus, even a timetable for three years seems optimistic, because it assumes that, during this period, the occupation cease, Iraqis will set their own democratic government and will be achieved political stability.
There is no need to say that the situation can be developed differently.
Tensions could drag on for years.
Moreover, no one should be surprised if oil production stops completely, even under a democratic government.
History suggests that strikes and other similar events which can interrupt the oil production are greater threat in democratic countries that in those that are not.
If Iraq cannot rapidly increasing their production capacity in the near future, this will be an obstacle to foreign policy and energy of the EU.
How finance the long-term reconstruction of Iraq?
Who will pay to maintain a fragile democracy Iraqi?
Can the EU to maintain its occupation if they are not able to food, health care and other basic services to the Iraqi people?
These are difficult questions, and essentially cannot be answered until a stable regime and democratic in Iraq can monitor and ensure a continuous flow of oil exports.
When the murderers look after human rights
If it were not so absolutely sad, would certainly be the joke millennium: Libya has been elected as President of the Commission on Human Rights of the United Nations.
When Calígula Senator appointed to its horse, at least the animal had no blood in the hooves.
Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the Presidency rotates every year in a region of the world to another.
This year was the question of Africa to nominar the chairman, and were appointed to Libya.
Only the United States and Canada voted against.
For its eternal shame, European countries abstained.
This decision is given at such a sensitive time for the organisation is indicative of the moral bankruptcy of the UN.
President Bush has challenged the UN to show its seriousness with regard to its own decisions on Iraq; otherwise could have the same ignominious end that the League of Nations, which was powerless in the 1930s when faced policies aggressive Nazi Germany and the Fascist Italy.
Elect Libya as Chair the UN agency responsible for human rights hardly help to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of the world body.
Let us remember: Libya is a tyranny totalitarian; their leader, Moammar, Kadafi behaviour combines combines combines political extremists, and supports dictators throughout the world.
Tops one of the most repressive regimes, where there is not even simulations of elections and where dissent is crushed immediately.
Under your government, Libya has supported terrorist organisations throughout the world (from the ERI until several extremist groups Palestinians).
Is still under UN sanctions for his role in the derribamiento a flight pan Am in Lockerbie, Scotland, ten years ago.
Over the last decade, the position of the UN as a symbol of the ideals of a peaceful world has been eroded.
Was totally incapable of stopping the war in the Balkans, and in at least one case (Srebrenica), a force Dutch UN peacekeeping remained as a mere spectators of the worst massacre in Europe after 1945, when the Bosnian Serbs murdered around 6.000 Muslim men defenceless.
A committee of inquiry Dutch later admitted that the Dutch batallón UN had, in fact, been complicit in this war crime.
In Rwanda, when the genocide began, the UN official responsible for peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the country forces organisation, with what left the way open for the massacre genocidal bloodiest since the Second World War.
The name of the official is Kofi Annan.
It is a story depressing and pathetic that the UN is trying to probably (in vain redeeming) to be presented in the crisis in Iraq as the voice of reason and international legitimacy.
But at a time when the UN inspections in Iraq as appear to send the Salvation army to remove a gang of gángsters, raising Libya to the presidency of the Commission on Human Rights could go down in history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose lives began optimistically.
Organisations not sulen die, and there are certainly very raison d etat to ensure that the UN continue to make progress, albeit limping along.
But it is hardly a shadow of what should and could be.
Today, the hypocrisy is the mark of the UN.
Authoritarian at the gates
Last Thursday, the judges of the Court central in Jakarta, Indonesia I sentenciaron to one year's imprisonment.
As editor head in tempo of the of, I am guilty, according to the Court, slander tycoon a a Tomy a Winata imply for its possible participation in a fire in the textile market South-East Asian in Jakarta and promote disturbances spreading lies.
Perhaps my case, and other similar down, promise the end of another democratic experiment short-term in Indonesia?
The troubles that I fomenté supposedly occurred in March of last year, when almost two hundred crooks who said, be supporters of Winata, attacked offices tempo, threatened to burn the building, acosaron staff and wounded a reporter.
To tackle the situation peacefully, persuaded me to negotiate in the central station police in Jakarta, but I discovered, to my horror, which was in the hands of the leaders of peat.
I beaten and I kicked while the police cerraba blind eye.
Fortunately, many journalists came to our rescue with the grabadoras and Chambers started.
Their emissions caused protests that prompted our Parliament to organise a public hearing.
The heads of the national police and Jakarta were called, and under enormous pressure popular, the leaders of peat were accused criminal.
But Winata evadió research policiaca simply declaring in public that its supporters had acted without that he knew and without their consent.
Then he presented their own criminal charges against Ahmad Taufik, who wrote article, Teuku Iskandar Ali, who, he edited and myself.
The judicial procedure that lasted a year was full of a number of events suspects, all in favour of Winata.
Firstly, the case that presented the police and the public prosecutor of the state contained documents that had been falsified obviously so that the police accused two official.
But the court rejected our request to delay the process until they could clarify the legality of the case of the state.
The case against the official concerned does not seem to be moving forward.
On the contrary, one of them was increased to lead the newly established (with funds from the EU) anti-terrorist unit in Jakarta.
On the other states that was sent to the College for the staff of police to receive training advanced.
Subsequently, during the sixth month of the process, the chairman of the panel composed of three judges was suddenly promoted to lead the bar of a city an hour's Jakarta.
One of my lawyers said that in its 35 years of experience in courts had never seen replaced a magistrate chairman for an ongoing court.
In fact, despite its promotion, the judge being followed another case in the same premises.
A judge who previously had ruled against tempo in demand civil Winata took office.
Finally, when Winata paid their testimony, perjury committed to deny that tempo had met.
Recently occurred with a recording the telephone interview in the Court, the reporter who made the interview and two publishers who witnessed the gave evidence juries, the official record of the telephone company was presented as evidence of the so-called and an expert concluded that the voice in the recording was Tomy Winata.
But the judges rejected the request for tempo of arrest and prosecute Winata by perjury and told us that we notice to the police, something which did.
Then the judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the Court until it is resolved the case of perjury against Winata.
Given the process so faulty, my condemnation and my judgment is not surprising.
However, I still have hope that we will win in the end, when the higher courts correspond to the appeal made by tempo.
The courts of Indonesia are cleaner while higher it hierarchy, and the President of the Supreme Court is a strong advocate of democracy and freedom of the press, the case of tempo could become a victory that will mark a milestone in our democracy, as was the decision of the Supreme Court of the EU in the case of the new York Times such Sullivan.
By making more difficult the charges of defamation, this decision ensures that journalists American can make public officials accountable.
No country knows better than Indonesia that freedom of expression and a free press are tested indicators of democratic development and treat journalists as criminals is a first symptom of authoritarianism.
Indonesia was a liberal democracy in the 1950s, before the President Sukarno, with the support of the military, began to suppress the press in 1956.
With the critical voices voices voices consolidate a power without limit was easier and, in July 1959, Sukarno declared the beginning of the "guided democracy" .
During the first years after the fall of Sukarno in 1966, it was restored all the advantages of genuine democracy, including the freedom of the press (except for the communists).
But the regime of President Suharto initiated a new repression against the press at the beginning of the 1970s, and finally banned various means imprisoned and many journalists.
With the press under control, other political rights were restricted quickly and democracy in Indonesia again fail.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the most democratic community Muslim of history.
There have been two parliamentary elections and two presidential elections direct -- including the last campaign presidencial-que were open, fair and peaceful, which shows that Islam and democracy can coexist.
However, the enemies of democracy never lie.
Radical Islamic groups involved in indiscriminate attacks, while groupings with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the intimate circle of President Megawati.
But Mrs Megawati has just be defeated in their attempt to re-election.
Does the recently elected President will continue Susilo accusing journalists?
Perhaps my condemnation and trials and sentences of other journalists, they will indicate the beginning of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia that both labour cost?
The answer is in the support that activists in favour of democracy in the country achieve generate both internally and at international level.
Lose Indonesia -- a potential beacon of hope for all activists in favour of democracy in Community the the a defeat the terrible.
The morality of the death penalty
Is often criticised the United States for refusing to abolish the death penalty.
Many are currently asserting that the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition criminal legal system civilised.
The Nobel Prize Gary Becker disagrees.
European governments are firmly opposed to the death penalty -- the European Union prohibits completely -- and some Europeans believe that their use in the United States is cruel.
In fact, many European intellectuals argue that not only the death penalty but punishments in general do not dissuade criminals.
But while Europeans, where the crime well below the US over the last half a century, could be the luxury of being relatively "soft" with the majority of crimes, have seen a steep rise in their levels of crime in the last twenty years.
On the other hand, charges Americans have fallen, partly due to the greater use of punishments.
This includes the death penalty.
I support the implementation of some people condemned by homicide because -- and only -- because I believe that prevents other murders.
If I do not believe that I oppose the death penalty, because revenge and other possible reasons should not be the basis of public policies.
The empirical studies serious about the death penalty in the EU began with a study pioneer of Yitzhak Ehrlich published in 1975 in the American economic review.
Some further studies have found a disincentive much weaker, while others have seen much stronger one.
However, the data available are fairly limited, so that must not be any conclusions based solely on the econométricas evidence.
Of course public policies as regards any punishment cannot wait until evidence is perfect.
But even with the evidence quantitative limited available, there is reason to believe that the death penalty discourages.
The majority of the people, and the murderers in particular, fear death, especially when it comes promptly and a considerable certainty after being committed murder.
As you said David Hume to talk about the suicide, nobody rejected his life worth while worth live it.
This is our terror natural death... "equally, Schopenhauer thought that" as the terrores life reach the point at which are higher than the terrores death, a man will put an end to their lives.
But the terrores death offer a considerable resistance... '
Those who are opposed to capital punishment say often that the state does not have the moral right of dropping life to anyone, including the worst murderers.
However this is a conclusion totally wrong for anyone who believes that the death penalty discourages.
To see why, if per murderer executed (instead of sentenced to prison life, for example) the number of murders are reduced to three, which is a figure well below those of Ehrlich and other calculations of the deterrent effect.
This means that for every murderer not executed would die out three innocent victims.
In fact, the government would be contributing indirectly "to" take many lives if not dropped the death penalty.
Save three innocent lives for every person executed seems to be a good compensation, and even two lives saved for implementation seems to be a rate convincing cost-benefit for the death penalty.
However, it is true that the arguments in favour of the death penalty are less clear, as the number of lives saved for implementation is decreasing.
But even only if if if a life for implementation, the option could still be desirable if life which was saved is much better than living the which the generally would be the case.
Many people are opposed to compare the quality of life the the life the the the
However, I do not see how avoid such comparison.
To consider a criminal career who stole and kills a victim carrying a decent life and that leaves several children and a wife.
If it were possible to save the life of an innocent victim to execute this criminals.
For me it is obvious that saving the lives of the victim must apply more than interrupt life to crime.
Obviously, not all cases are so clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must form part of any social policy reasonable.
This helps to explain why the death penalty must only be used in cases of murder and not minor offences.
When it comes to opt for remove lives and, let us say, reduce the robbery, the arguments in favour of punishments less severe are much more solid.
Although the severe aggression, including some appalling violations, can move closer to the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support their use in such cases.
A powerful argument in favour of setting aside the death penalty for the murderers is deterrence ' .
If the aggression is castigaran with implementation, criminals have an incentive to kill their victims in order to prevent the discover -- and this is an important reason why the severity of the punishment must be proportional in general to the severity of crimes).
A complication is that the death penalty can make the murderer fight with greater force to prevent his capture, which could lead to more deaths.
But, while deterrence marginal is important, I believe that the resistance of the murderers to be caught, possibly at the expense of their own lives, really is proof that criminals fear the death penalty.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of execute a innocent.
My support for the death penalty is considerably weaken if the rate of executions of innocent people outside as high as many claim.
However, I believe that the process of appeal in the EU offers an enormous protection, not so much against convictions wrong but against executions undue so that there are very few cases documented, if any, of innocent people have been executed.
And this process has been strengthened so much with the development of the identification based on the DNA.
Once again, the debate on the death penalty is essentially a debate on deterrence (which can be reduced with lengthy appeals).
I understand that some people are sceptical with regard to the evidence, although I believe that is both wrong on that and on the element of common sense of the issue.
It is distressing take life someone, even a murderer, but sometimes we need acts very unpleasant to prevent behaviour even worse than claim the lives of innocent victims.
The people versus Putin
I helped to select Vladimir Putin to happen to Boris Yeltsin, the first Russian President elected democratically.
Since the structures of the KGB and the Mafia now govern Russia and manipulated the judicial system, is supposed to Yeltsin wanted to define who would be his successor to avoid legal prosecutions in the future.
But those selecting to Putin had the task of finding a person who continue reforms Yeltsin, not someone who is escudara him and his family.
In fact, Yeltsin had no fear and did not seek their survival staff, but the idea democratic introduced in Russia.
Now, however, this idea is threatened due to the successor to chose.
I do not deny my responsibility for having supported Putin.
We were not closest friends, but we are working together in critical situations, never and and his and honesty.
Putin acts guided by their convictions.
The problem is that they, including its belief that Russia can only succeed if it is governed by a power resulted in a single source, are wrong.
This mistake is being Russia to ruin policy.
Of course, anyone who takes a high office is making mistakes, even some fundamental, and this is particularly true in tumultuous periods.
Yeltsin was not an exception, but he acknowledged the.
For example, when we withdrew on the eve of New Year 1999 asked apologise for having started the war in Chechnya.
In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognise and acknowledge their mistakes, and persists in implementing a policy long after its failure is clear to everyone.
One of the mistakes of Yeltsin was not set the moral priorities at the head of its reform programme.
Russia should have repented Stalinism and the system of gulag fields of forced labour.
The nation as a whole, without exceptions, should have repented, of the way in which the Germans have done so since 1945.
This omission is important because it allowed the little happy belief in Putin a central authority towards recaptura the rule by the security services.
In fact, a direct result of the national regret for the gulag was should have been the prohibition of the Communist Party and the phasing-in of those who have worked on the KGB to exercise political posts.
Although these political filters are a complex issue in the post-communist societies, where both victimisation and cooperation are so generalised and the boundaries between them are so borrosos, could have been found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
The do nothing left security structures Russian unscathed and with the ability to carry out a return political, which currently have achieved.
The resurrection policy structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence the disenso once again turned to Russia in a country of dissidents.
It is impossible to silence the politicians and the independent media without strangle sources of financing independent, and that is why the Kremlin Putin has concentrated its attacks in the so-called "oligarchs" .
The arrest and trial of Mr Khodorkovsky were orchestrated precisely for this reason.
To eliminate sources of financing independent security services that dominate the Kremlin expect destroy political life independent in Russia.
Without foundations of independent thought, is guaranteeing a climate of fear.
But the fear not only degrades: creates the conditions for a bad government.
Yeltsin understood way of fear and centralised decision-making and top-down were not ways of governing a modern country, and consequently insisted on reforming the relationship between citizens and the state.
Putin still do not understand that a political system centralised is so unable to understand and correct errors now as it was in the Soviet era.
Putin, who is not a man well educated, is leading to Russia, with a deep and sincere belief, the same disintegration which struck with the collapse of the Soviet state.
The people are beginning to realise this.
People see that the desire to Putin to create a modern state strong and effective cannot be made a reality, as a modern state is governed not from the top down, but by our citizens to be informed which obliges their rulers to recognise and correct its mistakes.
Putin also seems suspect the powerlessness of his regime.
This is one of the reasons why Russia has become so aggressive with its neighbours, Ukraine and Georgia, and seems to maintain a military presence in places like the Transnistria, the separatist region of Moldova.
The launch its weight on its closest neighbours, the Kremlin thinks that can persuade the Russians its omnipotence.
Given the castrado is that the debate in Russia, and the skill of the Kremlin to manipulate the elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who wish to preserve the idea of democracy in the country.
It makes no sense to hide empty illusions.
Those who oppose Putin must decide what they want and say that, if the regime fails to adhere to the constitution, have the right to force it to do so, by whatever means that is necessary.
At present, the question of power in Russia can no longer be decided solely at the ballot box.
As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
Tax and expenditure in India
A level of tax too high can reduce incentives and hinder the growth.
But too low a level can provide the same result.
Governments with tax revenue scarce cannot provide basic public services.
Worse still, the few tax revenue in poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in the systems of taxation (more than the low taxes) also promote little productivity in companies.
India illustrates the importance of a system of taxation well designed.
In Bangalore, the high-tech industries have built facilities quality of meadows good care and communication networks high-speed.
However, outside these installations are open drenajes rubbish, without harvesting and streets in poor condition.
While the technology companies transmitted instantly terrabytes information to remote continents, local transport works at a pace almost medieval.
As a result, companies in Bangalore have their own bus services, employ private providers of drinking water and generators fitted to protect us from interruptions in the electricity supply.
The state cannot resolve the disaster because it is bankrupt.
The government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their income tax engaged in the payment of interest.
But the debt is not the result of excessive expenditure in the past.
Government expenditure of India is approximately 15% of GDP, compared with an average of around 40% of GDP in the OECD.
Rather, the financial difficulties of India arise from a tax system badly designed and badly administered.
Charges and the rules for taxes on income staff and corporate are reasonable under international criteria.
However, the Government of India gains tax on income arriving only approximately 3,7% of GDP, more or less half of what receive South Korea and other Asian tigers.
Agriculture in India represents around 25% of GDP, but even rich farmers pay taxes.
Companies aimed at exports in the software industry and in other enjoy tax privileges, although their employees themselves pay taxes envelopes their personal income.
Although charges are reasonable, evasion is widespread.
This is happening because the government has not invested in personal or systems for detecting the tax evaders, who rarely go to prison and often can give bribes to break the spot when the achieve catch.
A more subtle evasion of taxes "direct" on the accession and the profits reflects the disorder in the tax system "indirect" on the production and consumption.
The tax consumption represents more than 60% of indirect taxation of India, which in turn is the same proportion of their income tax total.
The basic tax consumption is set at 16% of the value of the production of a company.
Then there are a number of concessions, exemptions and surcharges.
For example, applies a rate rights of 8% in areas such as foodstuffs, the cerillos, the hilados cotton and computers.
In addition, applies a "special rate of excise duty" IEC (8%) to products which include the strands of poliéster cars, air conditioners, air and tyres.
Also applies a "additional tax consumption" (IAC, not to confuse with the IEC) "products of particular importance" .
Exemptions from the consumption tax are numerous and complex, and include companies with annual income total of less than 10 million rupias and companies located in sensitive areas or backward.
On the whole, exemptions are broken up into 70 categories, subdivididas in items 259, 52 conditions and seven lists, each of which contains a number of articles.
Exemptions call to abuse.
For a sum of money, we can convince officials low-level, who have a considerable discretion to implement the conditions that make interpretations favourable.
Goods with high rates (for example, the part) pulido sold as commodities with lower rates (for example, as part rough).
The evasion of consumption tax is more contagious evasion of taxes on income and profits.
If a company has evaded taxes on consumption and the tax rate is high compared with the profit margins before taxes its industry, their competitors also have to do so, simply to survive.
As the evasion increases, governments impose rights additional or "special" which generate more evasion.
The collection of direct taxes is also affected.
Bribery which is paid to the tax man consumption, the difference between the value of the pulido part and rough and reports the the revenue the funds the "black" which cannot be pencil into the declarations of taxes.
As well as the ability of the state to provide basic public services, the tricks to evade indirect taxation also discourage companies to take technologies more productive, which require methods with large-scale operations.
However, because it is easier to evade indirect taxes operating several small units instead of a large, economies of scale cannot be created.
It is to stress that in the software industry, where all units are exempted from indirect taxes, the Indian companies operate on a scale efficient.
Could you India emulate the example of China, where the streamlining of indirect taxes in 1994 created the conditions for a great boom?
Or is the coalition governments of a vigorous democracy are not capable of doing such reform?
Last year, the Government of India, headed by the BJP, adopted legislation that ordered severe cuts in the presupuestal deficit.
Appointed a special group to make the necessary changes in policies of taxation and expenditure.
In July of this year, the Group proposed increasing taxes (instead of spending cuts) by, among other things, the elimination of most of the exemptions of indirect taxation.
The new government of India, headed by the Party Congress also seems to be in favour of these proposals.
If the Party Congress and opposition parties the formalise, this will be a great step forward to maintain the economic growth of the country and to dispel the notion that democracies cannot do what is needed to promote development.
What is wrong with Turkey?
On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most writers famous Turkey, will be presented in a court of Istanbul to deal with the accusation "insult national identity" , having been in favour of an open debate on the Turkish genocide of 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and 1916.
Pamuk can face a judgment of three years in prison.
Turkey's attitude of fine and sent to prison to those who do not follow the official line confirms my opposition to open negotiations on membership as a member of the European Union.
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that would accede to the Union at a later date and not specified.
Subsequently, the Council asked the Commission to decide to October 2004 if Turkey had satisfied sufficiently the political criteria -- including democracy, the rule of law and respect for the rights of minorities ethical -- for their membresía.
This decision was one of the last of the Commission under Romano Prodi, for which I was a member.
Of its 30 Member, 29 said that Turkey had satisfied the criteria sufficiently as to make progress in the process.
I was the only in dissent.
The Commission report itself on Turkey, prepared by Günter Verheugen, who in this then was in charge of EU enlargement, spelled out my decision.
The document mentioned that in 2003 nearly 21,870 submitted applications for asylum in the EU, of which 2,127 were accepted.
In other words, the governments themselves EU recognised in 2003 that the Turkish government had pursued over 2,000 of its citizens.
In the meantime, the Commission published a report on progress Turkey which stated that the continued reforms, although to a lesser pace, under the government guidance moderate Islamic Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
However, the report also raised serious fears: continued violations of human rights, including torture; the influence of the military was still far too high; freedom of expression is not met way of religious minorities and cultural non-Muslim were suffering discrimination; and there was a clear and clear opposition by the power to violence against women.
There have been many changes since the beginning of talks on accession to the EU, carried out in October.
Beyond the current persecution of Pamuk, abound unacceptable behaviour.
In March 2005, the police dispersed violently a demonstration celebrating international Women's Day.
In May, the largest trade union of teachers was banned in promoting the education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.
In fact, intolerance goes to the highest positions of the Turkish government.
The Minister for External Relations, Abdullah Gül, steeply cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen saw when a journalist Kurdish between the public and the Danish rehusaron to expel.
These actions and attitudes amply justify my disagreement in October 2004.
However, even if they were overcome, nor Turkey should be accepted into the EU, because it is not a European country.
Christianity, feudalism, the renaissance, the Enlightenment, democracy and the industrialisation we have become what we as Europeans, but have not turned to the Turks in what they are.
So I am not convinced that the reforms implemented in Turkey by the insistence of the European Commission continue after the country finally accede to the EU.
Indeed, I suspect that there will be a step backwards.
Furthermore, the accession of Turkey would lead inevitably to Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Certainly, the first three of these countries are more European than Turkey.
Leaving aside the three Caucasus republics, but including those states which were before Yugoslavia, the EU would be around 35 members.
What kind of Union will this?
The EU is not simply a club of friends.
It is based on the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.
The Commission, as guardian of the Treaties of the Union, must protect these four fundamental freedoms, which means that sometimes must persuade and, if necessary, to force the Member States to change their laws.
The policy of Sweden on alcohol, the law Volkswagen in Germany and discrimination against funds of foreign investment in France are examples of cases that have been made unpopular to the Commission.
But they were necessary.
When I left the Commission, I am given to before 1,500 of these infringement proceedings.
In short, become a member of the EU undertakes to take that action accept accept would accept deeply the internal affairs of a state.
This will be impossible to do with members so different.
The EU will become the victim of what historian the Paul the "sobreextensión imperial." 
It would dilute beyond what is acceptable.
That is why the former French president, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, I feared that membership end seeing a fall apart in the EU and the German Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, stated that "the accession of Turkey would be more than the EU could bear." 
However, the reason stronger in opposition to the accession of Turkey is a matter of democracy: the majority of the population of the EU simply do not want it.
The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America
Where we look, Bolivia is not a typical Latin American country.
After Haiti, this is the second poorest nation of western hemisphere, and it is even less stable, with a history marked by more than coups since independence.
In a region with a strong past indigenous, but with a present although and isolated, Bolivia is, together with Guatemala, perhaps the only country in Latin America where indigenous peoples constitute the majority of the population.
Their topography and distribution ethnic are generally for autonomy, and even act as separatist forces that threaten the national unity ways of that in any other country.
And, of course, is along with Paraguay the only nation without access to the sea in the subcontinent.
So it would be highly imprudent transfer the current crisis Bolivia to the rest of Latin America.
It is too simplistic generalise: the institutions in all the other countries are much stronger, poverty (particularly extreme poverty) is decreasing and, to a large extent, the battle for natural resources has been resolved.
Even in countries such as Venezuela, with huge reserves of oil and a government mentality of, the status quo which allows foreign investment in energy resources has survived almost eight years of government of President Chavez Hugo.
Even though movements of a reality in many countries, in Chiapas to "Araucanía" and the Amazon to Ayacucho in any country in Latin America has represented a real threat to the national integrity.
So the Bolivia is not a crisis that may herald others in the region, nor the tired "domino theory" , held not only by Lyndon Johnson as the Che Guevara in the Bolivian case, it seems valid or even halfway reasonable.
However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of the "democratic deficit" which is suffering from Latin America at present.
The elected governments have failed, for one reason or another, in Bolivia, Ecuador and Haiti.
Democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is under threat for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
None of these cases is identical to the other, as they include varying levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.
The question is what can be done about this situation, which contrasts markedly with the encouraging prospects that predominaban for only a few years.
At the last meeting of the Organisation of American States in Fort, Lauderdale Florida, the United States took a good idea for others had had, and to support it, basically ended with it.
History began a couple of years ago, when the former Minister Argentine external relations Dante Caputo and the United Nations programme for development were in charge of outline the report on democracy in Latin America.
Came to the conclusion that a system early warning about crisis of democracy in the region would help generate actions before that things were to be out of control, as is the case today in Bolivia.
Caputo and the team of the UN persuaded the then chairman Chilean Ricardo Lagos to take the initiative and promote between several of your colleagues.
It did, but the question was not very far.
In fact, the UNDP report on democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, hardly mentioned.
The United States and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean José Insulza Miguel, the plan resucitaron during the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but it was rejected due to the reasonable Latin American fears that the idea was directed against Venezuela, combined with the anachronistic mistrust of the countries of Latin America that is violating the sacrosanct principle of non-intervention.
Although the continent was unable to reach an agreement on the principle behind the proposal, the idea of an early warning system it deserves attention.
At present, it may be little community the the do the regarding what is happening in Bolivia, but the situation is preñada risk for all.
Evo Morales, leader of the opposition and growers coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but without its supporters of authoritarian wishes?
It may be that Hugo Chavez is not funding moral and the other dissidents Bolivian, but do you really Venezuela and Cuba does not have the temptation to interfere in the country where the Che Guevara died trying to generate a guerrilla war almost 40 years ago?
The business community in the region Bolivian of Santa Cruz may not realising its threat of be separated from the country, but would prefer to share its reserves of oil and gas with indigenous peoples of altiplano instead of industrialists Brazilian of São Paulo?
Before the events can reach these extremes, could be a good idea which the OAS (not USA) involucrara.
The region still needs such participation, with an appropriate compromise, with message and based on a platform democratic right to distinguish the traditional US intervention of the traditional Latin American indifference.
Does the deterioration in France?
The French are extremely sensitive, not to say that are the defensive) with regard to the short of their country in the world.
The French state spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware that the overall stance of his country is no longer what ever was.
It is not surprising, then, that during the last Presidential elections, the publication of a report by the European Commission, which said that economic France had happened from the third to the tenth place between European countries in a period of ten years, has caused examination of conscience and disputes. shortly afterwards, the President Jacques Chirac he accused his rival Lionel Jospin, lead to a deterioration "France" .
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that they had finished with this aspect of the controversy in showing that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
But the more general debate not gave way.
Again appeared statements on "the deterioration" French during the street protests this year against the reform of the pension system, the growing disputes on fiscal policy with the European Commission and the riots with the United States on the war in Iraq.
Currently, the best books sold in France is a labour dispute of Nicolas Baverez, France qui tombe (France which falls).
The Book of Baverez is full of appointments de Gaulle and Napoleon.
In accordance with the author, recent major achievements of France were in the 1970s, with the launch of the fast train, the TGV, and the Airbus.
Attacks both Mitterrand and Chirac on his talent "shared to win elections and make France a failure" .
The success of the book is in itself symptom of a sort of "unease." 
But what kind?
The evidence of degradation which presents Baverez are not as convincing as he believes.
For example, draws attention to the loss of jobs industrial as the clearest indication of the deterioration of France.
However, the de-industrialisation is common to all the advanced countries.
In fact, France is better than most of his rivals rich and, unlike Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has maintained the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector which was at the beginning of the 1970s.
Furthermore, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, foreign investment, France is going very well.
According to a recent report by the Council of Economic analysis, direct investment in France grew up to EUR 60 billion in 2001, nearly twice in Germany.
Competitiveness in costs of the country also improved (20%) in the last three decades, since a higher productivity has balanced the rapid growth of wages.
But the heart of the economic problems of long term France is precisely the fear of loss of industrial jobs.
France remains a strong industrial power in traditional areas such as the automotive and aerospace, but it is rezagando markets in innovative, where smaller companies diseminan new technologies.
For example, France only invests 30 billion dollars a year in research and development high-tech, compared with the 51 billion Germany, the 98 billion Japan and the 265 billion of the United States.
In short, the analysis of Baverez goes in the wrong direction.
France has gone through a series of reforms critical over the last two decades: economic liberalisation and financial abolition of checks at prices and the exchange rate, the end of the restrictions on credit, reduction of inflation and deficits trade, the arrival of the euro and the forced globalisation of businesses in the country.
The French unease has nothing to do with any of them.
The problem with France is that fails to recognise the new world of already forms part.
Capitalism French government has died and France costs work accept his death.
In fact, France has to be the only country in which a Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, feel obliged to apologise the day after having said on television that "the state is not omnipotent" .
There are many reasons behind this schizophrenia French, but one of the main concerns the political game of the last 20 years.
Until 1981, in France there was a clear division between left and right.
Since then, administrations both Mitterrand and Chirac moderaron their ideological positions in order to make the difficult process of adjustment towards Europe and globalisation.
A "therapy shock" the style of Mrs
Thatcher two decades ago could have forged a new political awareness, but the slowness in achieving the consensus to adopt reforms to the French live in a world and think in another.
This is one of the fundamental reasons behind the political disaster which erupted during the last presidential campaign, when the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, came to the second round of the elections
The rise of the extreme left, which received 10% of the vote in the presidential campaign, it is also proof of the political failure.
France needs a revolution policy, rather than an economic, if it wants to be reconciled with the fact, part of which is that the deterioration "French" is a fear that the French themselves have created.
The value of European values
European leaders have resurrected the pláticas constitutional interrupted last December by a dispute over the rights of vote.
Of course, these disputes are subject to arrangements, which probably will be achieved.
What still needs is to establish a clear understanding of what is being sought the Constitution succeeds.
Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: solidarity and subsidiarity.
Both these principles are at the crossing of philosophy, politics, the economy, the social conditions and the law.
Have been here for years in legal frameworks and institutions of the European Union -- in treaties, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights (which the quoted in the preamble), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.
In short, form part of the history and the ideals of the EU.
But what really mean solidarity and subsidiarity?
Let us consider the solidarity that is open to at least two things: solidarity static, which only concerns the distribution of income and wealth, and the broader concept of solidarity dynamic, which also relates to the production of income and wealth.
In the post-war history of European integration, solidarity the the force in the first period (the European coal and steel Community) both in its economic development strategy (reconstruction) and in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.
This does not mean that the dynamic solidarity to delete subsequently: the European Monetary Union, for example, is another of your expressions.
Thus, although some countries do not benefited immediately with the euro, accepted in any case because they were convinced that in the long term would have positive effects.
In other words, the dynamic solidarity means promote policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.
However, as stated in the GDP growth in the EU, solidarity dynamic has been weakened in the last decade.
What is most worrying is the delay in research.
The implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, the EU adopted in 2000, and that promised to create the most competitive economy in the world is threatened by an increasing emphasis on solidarity static, which is reflected in the high costs of social security and the high taxes that are needed to finance it.
The predominance of solidarity static is due to an ageing population, which, to a aunada growth slower, has led to fiscal imbalances structural.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards older people on solidarity dynamic that benefit young people.
After all, the Union cannot allow consumption continues to overcoming the investment required to guarantee the future prosperity.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity also means two things: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
The vertical subsidiarity relates to the distribution of power between the various levels of government and sovereignty: the EU, the Member States, the regions and municipalities.
The application better known this principle is federalism.
In the European Treaties can find a clear expression of vertical subsidiarity.
But is it enough to accommodate the institutional arrangements and constitutional which are emerging in the Union?
The horizontal subsidiarity has to do with the responsibility and the freedom of the human being, and the social forces and economic.
Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
But society and the market have their own rights and sovereignty, which are not granted by the state.
Thus, the problem lies in ensuring the autonomy of each area.
An example of horizontal subsidiarity is the European internal market, which created a new type of economic freedom and increased competition between companies by removing the protection they are offered the national governments.
The horizontal subsidiarity means that, both in the social and economic sense the state cannot violate freedom and individual responsibility, which must be respected as much as possible.
It also means that power ' must support when freedom and individual responsibility are not sufficient to achieve the necessary means to human dignity.
However, this support must be implemented in such a way as to encourage the potential natural individuals, society and the market.
But that is only possible when the role of the horizontal subsidiarity is clearly defined, which is not in the European treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the work of the European Convention.
In short, solidarity has become redistribution instead of growth, which is the way in which the present generation expresses its solidarity with future generations), while subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, rather than a careful delimitation of the borders between state, civil society and the market.
Today, the definitions of both promote values the state.
In fact, focus on growth based on the market is often identifies with values the the US.
But these values are deeply rooted in Europe, and it is necessary to extricate them in the light of new.
The EU must re-establish its economic vitality through a model of solidarity and subsidiarity that is more balanced in favour of the market and society, and to reduce the socio-economic influence of the state.
The institutions of the state must provide public goods (such as defence, justice and fiscal and monetary policy), society must provide social goods (such as culture, education and assistance to the needy) and the market must provide economic goods (which are connected with the profits, growth and employment).
In the 21st century, Europe must reconsider the value of both principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if we are to reach the goal historic integration: freedom and prosperity necessary to overcome the differences and political divisions that caused the tragedies of the twentieth century.
That is the spirit in which we must draw up the European Constitution.
The policy of values
The debate on the elections not American American Americans.
How was President George W. Bush obtain three million votes more than Senator John Kerry and, furthermore, majority a a one in both houses of the Congress?
There is no agreement in the answers, but two themes recur in many explanations.
One is the personality.
In times of uncertainty and threat, people had more confidence in the President who knew that the candidate who had not yet been put to the test.
The second issue is the values.
People voted by a set of values rather than by specific policies.
In fact, some States () agreed with the policies of Kerry, but in any case I gave their vote to Bush because they felt "to" happy with its general attitude.
It is clear that the United States are currently deeply divided into electoral terms.
An arc states of democrats of) in the east and west north around an enormous area (red Republican) in the centre and the South.
What is more, the divisions reproduce at local level.
It is no longer necessary to draw constituency boundaries for the benefit of any political party in particular.
People in fact tends to move to areas where the majority shares its values, whether Republicans or democrats.
What exactly are those values?
They concern, or so we hear, with "God, weapons and gays." 
Religion plays a role, including the truth wording of the Bible in terms of the history of the creation.
The possession of a weapon is proof last of individualism, and to use weapons in not wars wars wars.
Practices gay and other practices "modern" are rejected by excessive.
As raised the political scientist Andrew Hacker recently: "the candidature of Bush was drawn up in order to achieve a majority by some 60 million people the opportunity to feel well with themselves." 
Is this a phenomenon American, or perhaps there are similar tendencies elsewhere?
A response is that as a phenomenon American policy values can be majority now, but it is by no means general.
Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.
The personality certainly matters, and below political differences open can also be issues of values that have not arisen to the surface.
But political differences traditional based on the disagreement on fundamental values play a role declining in elections.
For example, Prime Minister Tony Blair, next leader important to face elections used the argument of personality and speaks of policies, but it is above all a set of values of SMEs.
When talking about "modernisation" or "taking things into the 21st century" , achieves imply a strange mixture but attractive exchange and stability.
This has left the opposition Conservative without an effective response.
Even issues such as the tax cuts and asylum laws stricter do not achieve fibres values that the Republican Party in the United States has achieved touch.
The situation is similar in Germany, where the influence open policy values is even less.
The debate German remains largely a debate of policies.
Once the opposition offers the pláticas government on the reform of the system of health or more recently on combating unemployment, competition underlying is on capacities, rather than values.
However, below the battlefields common political debate in England and Germany and in other parts of Europe lurk shocks of values.
Parties are fighting for those who can be done that "are well with themselves" , but perhaps not understand fully that this only in part it is a question of policies.
It is unlikely that religion becoming a central element of European policy; surveys show that religious observance is one of the few large differences between Americans and Europeans.
Weapons also have elsewhere in the minds of Europe; what Europeans see as important is its absence.
It is also an unmistakeable patch values of the continent.
But the question of political correctness (' gays ') also hitherto plays a role underestimated.
The most important thing is that Europe itself divides Europeans, as the question "national" arises in each Member State of the continent.
It is a matter of values, inspired by the fear.
People want to know where it belongs, and in this process are against the United States and to Europe or against Europe and towards their country.
Anyway, outside the scope of policies, and even policy and to the ingresamos shady domains of symbols and myths.
This is, in any case, the main danger facing democratic countries, because the political values is something dangerous.
Reintroduces fundamental divisions in societies whose greatest achievement was precisely democratic eradicate fundamentalism of politics.
A public debate illustrated must be a dispute on policies framed in a community of values.
I therefore insist that is a prime objective of the policy of freedom.
Is approaching the age of interests
One swallow does not make a summer, and a month growth of employment and prices in the United States does not mean that the Federal Reserve is no longer concerned about the malestares economic and deflation.
But the day will come when interest rates global start to rise, as the central bankers prepare to withstand the slow upward trend of inflation.
When that day comes -- whether in the autumn, in 2005 or 2006 or 2007-Estados united and global economy will face vulnerabilities financial product of success over the last three years has had the stimulation monetary to stop reductions in production and to temper unemployment.
Interest rates in the short term are overwhelmingly low: only 2% in the euro zone, 1% in the EU and zero in Japan.
Monetary policy expansionist has been successful, but only as regards reducing interest rates at historically low levels -- and to persuade investors that the costs of appropriations will remain at current levels for a long time.
The main outcome of incentives monetary has been raising prices fixed assets: anything that will yield dividends or income is much more attractive -- and in this respect, much more valuable in terms of money -- when interest rates are very low and is expected to follow as well.
This explains the huge gulfs between current prices of goods roots in the EU actions in New York, London and Frankfurt, and bonds long-term everywhere, and what one would normally which are fundamental values.
What will happen when the banks start to raise interest rates?
In 1994, the increases in rates short-term caused increases in the long term -- and falls in prices bonds in the long plazo-de at least twice what models common predicting at that time.
Furthermore, the rates of interest in peripheral economies developing grew much more than the core industrial advanced.
The first risk by which we need to focus from 2005 onwards -- when it is more likely that interest rates is another eleven-es wave of financial crises of the emerging markets.
For countries such as Mexico, Turkey, Brazil, Argentina, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand, the record of the 1990s shows that the differences in rates of interest can be extended and capital flows can be reverse extremely rapid and ensure that the officials of the IMF and the analysis of the largest banks look favourably on a country's policies.
The differences in rates of interest of the emerging markets today are abnormally low.
International capital movements -- without including the arriving in the EU-todavía are not the level that is associated with the "irrational exuberance" , but there is still time for this to happen before the rates of interest begin to rise.
This is an alarming prospect, because the lesson that we left the 1990s was that nobody should overestimate the stability of international financial flows.
The second danger stems from the high value of goods at the heart industrial advanced.
The current thinking of the Federal Reserve -- with which I acuerdo-parece be revolution the the, the fact that the rate of growth of production potential in the EU is still very accelerated and therefore the output gap is relatively large.
This means that, in fact, it will be necessary that interest rates remain low for a considerable period.
Furthermore, confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and were drawn in interest rates the last vestiges of risk premiums inflationary.
As a result, even after production levels return to its potential interest rates will remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980s and 1990s.
All this, of course, is good news for those who have active as bonds long-term actions and goods roots.
In fact, raise prices long-term goods was precisely the objective of lowering interest rates: after all, do more to the rich tenedores bond and above all to the owners of property ownership is an incentive for expenditure.
But the trouble is that even if it is to be hoped that interest rates remain low for a while not, so low indefinitely.
The fact is that when interest rates are raised, the value of the property will fall.
In these periods, particularly when the value of assets falls quickly and sustancial-podemos realise exactly the skill of our central bankers to fulfil its core task: to reduce the volatility financial and to promote economic stability.
Also in these times we see the number of people who have long-term bonds, goods or roots actions do not consider that because current prices are attractive in relation to the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
That is a crucial issue for designers policies, because those goods bought long-term because of what seemed to be a continual increase in prices are the same as will sell as prices show be backwards.
In particular, the trade deficit of the EU can be seen as a great source of instability if the price of goods long-term fall significantly.
Certainly the challenges that will face designers economic policy of the world during the next few years will be different to those who have dealt with since the collapse of the bubble NASDAQ.
The risks associated with inflation perhaps are less dangerous than those who create the fall in production and the threat of deflation.
But, as we learned in the 1990s, this does not mean that the challenges ahead will be easier to handle.
The future opposing United States
Recently I knew something interesting: the American economists finance of the American macroeconomistas geared to the analysis local US views have very different (in fact, opposing) on the probable consequences the enormous current account deficit in the US.
Economists of international finance are likely that in the United States happen a financial crisis, followed by a recession painful and perhaps prolonged.
The macroeconomistas directed at local analysis, in contrast, see the imminent fall in the value of the dollar not as a crisis, but as an opportunity to accelerate growth.
In general terms, see the situation as follows: at some point in the future, central banks foreigners will be less willing to continue buying large quantities of so-called values in dollars in order to underpin the role currency.
When they have completed their programmes buying dollars on a large scale, the value of the dollar will fall... and strong will fall.
However, according to this vision, as decline the value of the dollar US exports will do more attractive to foreigners, employment will be strengthened and reincorporará workforce to export sector, which will live a new phase of boom.
It will be as what happened in England after left the anchoring of its exchange rate and enabled the pound is depreciara with regard to the Deutschmark, or what happened in the United States at the end of the 1990s, when the dollar is depreció against the pound, the Deutschmark and -- most importantly) the Japanese yen.
Economists finances international see a future much bleaker.
They see an end to the programmes buying dollars on a large scale of the central banks will mean not only a decline of the dollar, but also a rise in interest rates long-term from the US, which will end immediately the spending of consumption and stifle the investment expenditure after a small tactics.
There is no doubt that economists finances international also see that US exports will profit as the value of the dollar reduced, but the retardos in demand are such that the momentum will happen exporter a year or two after the low in the spending of consumption and investment.
Eight to ten million people will have to change jobs from the services sector and construction sectors related to exports and goods competing with imports, which means that it will increase the structural unemployment.
What is more, there may be a panic financial: the large financial institutions with debts short-term and long-term assets will be in difficulties faced with a huge increase in interest rates long-term so-called in dollars.
This disparity can cause tensions financial and bankruptcies so easy as the debts of short term in dollars and assets in local currency banks the caused during the Mexican crisis and in East Asia in the years 90, and the Argentine crisis in this decade.
When economists finances international describe this scenario, the macroeconomistas geared to the analysis local US respond that it sounds like a case of monetary policy incompetent.
Why the Federal Reserve should enable the rates of interest long-term had huge increases just because other central banks have completed their programmes buying dollars?
Surely we should intervene and replace them with their own bond purchases of US Treasury, maintaining that way interest rates long-term at a level that will lead to full employment?
To this, economists finances international respond that the Federal Reserve does not have the power to do that.
If it obliges them to choose between full employment and price stability, economists finances international say that the Federal Reserve selected price stability, since its institutional memory of the eighties, when inflation was the clouds, remains very strong.
Therefore, since a fall in the value of the dollar increases import prices and functions as a blow against the supply side in the economy, the Federal Reserve will have to increase, not decrease, interest rates and sold bonds instead of buy them.
On both sides of this debate there are serious economists who respect enormously.
I am not sufficiently wise to say what is the right side, but of course I know what I hope I am wrong.
The gorrones of Europe
In the United States, countries with fiscal policies inadequate face a punishment.
Their sold bonds with a rebate in relation to the countries better administered.
The service higher debt who have to pay works -- to some degree -- as a form of discipline against the temptation of spending and now pay afterwards.
Of course, the discipline of the market is not perfect: the bond market largely no "is" passive future involved (payments as promised by pensions).
However, this fiscal discipline forced, together with the procedures themselves presupuestales within each country, managed to give a crisis tax large-scale at state level in the EU since the Great Depression.
Let me turn to the case of Europe.
Before the adoption of the euro, there were many tax crisis in the nation states of the Southern continent, which were waves of high inflation.
But with the introduction of the single currency was closed the way for the solution of financial crises by inflation, because now that the European Central Bank (ECB) watches monetary policy.
However, even if the nation states can no longer use inflation to solve their financial imbalances, the single currency allowed to use the capacity for indebtedness that properly belongs to other members of the European Union to extend its adventures of expenditure and postpone accountability policies for their periods of laissez them bons temps roulés.
To avoid this possibility, EU created the stability and Growth Pact: the government deficits were to be lower than 3% of GDP.
Last week, the government of Germany -- that ever was the Member State of the EU more prudent and disciplined -- broke the rules of the Pact on fiscal discipline by fifth year running, and did so without major () apologies.
The Minister of Finance, peer Steinbrueck, indicated that it expected the European Commission were to impose any sanction to Germany. said that unless we took any measure, the credibility of the Pact would be at risk.
Therefore, Germany would block not sanctions on this occasion, as it did two and a half years ago.
Steinbrueck but also made it clear that I had hoped that sanctions in response to the fiscal deficit planned in Germany of 3,4% of GDP were largely symbolic, and not punishments that I costaran his government or its economy a great deal.
The stability and Growth Pact is not working -- or at least not yet -- remotely as intended to do so.
But the discipline of the market?
Is it limited the will of the German Government to give more debt and have greater deficits because the market recognises and punish those nation states allowing their positions tax be watered down?
In a word, not.
Interest rates debt sovereign so-called into euros of the governments of the eurozone are very similar.
Therefore, the market does not seem to care that countries have different potential to generate exports to fund financial flows needed to pay debt, or different relations debt current and planned -- GDP.
Willem Buiter university and of Amsterdam of the University of London believe that has been the willingness of the ECB to accept, in fact, all debt of the eurozone as a guarantee undermining the disposal of the market to act as responsible for ensuring that has fiscal prudence.
While a marginal part of debt German is used as a guarantee for a loan short-term or as a basis for an agreement buy-back for obtaining liquidity, is much more likely to its value is determined by the terms in which the ECB welcomes the guarantees for its foundations.
The treatment now gives the ECB to all these debts as sources powerful liquidity reserve demolishes any analysis of differences of risk sovereign long-term.
In the long term, that is dangerous.
Both the discipline of the market and the tax administration are necessary to create a fair chance of achieving price stability in the long term.
If there is no mention of the punishment of the market in such a way that we can return reckless or the institutional levers to give voice to future generations, there are serious risks -- perhaps not today or tomorrow, but one day and for the rest of our lives.
As time passes, the arrival of the single currency and the way in which it has implemented the euro are causing ever greater concern.
Policy as a whole throughout the euro zone is too deflationary.
They are not doing transfers to the common currency is bearable in the regions that are losing out and which are already in recession when the ECB makes it more restrictive policy.
The institutional foundations of a fiscal policy stable long-term are being eroded.
And now, Buiter and Sibert argue convincingly, the ECB is giving the market less room for which should have to reward those who save and punish those who squandered.
There is still no movements soil, and not the will for some time.
But the land under the euro could start to tremble if things do not change.
Milosevic and Hussein: the farce as trial
Trials of war criminals used to be a serious matter.
Let us remember the pictures of Goering Herman and Rudolf Hess sitting, taciturnos, in the dock in Nuremberg.
Some leaders Nazis were even after colgados judgments of but fair.
At present, the judicial proceedings against leaders more evil in the world have been turned into a farce.
The trial of Saddam Hussein and his henchmen's party of the ath is a never-ending series of disgraces.
The defendants used a ruse after another and Hussein shows their contempt in every possible way.
It is difficult to expect a result which is legitimate in the eyes of the Iraqis or anywhere else in the world.
Meanwhile, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic became funeral after four years evidence of a cost of over 200 million dollars.
In Cambodia, the United Nations and the government have almost ten years delaying on how to carry trial Members the the the Khmer Rouge.
The mass murderers who took power in the twentieth century were sentenced to death in popular uprisings or to try them for their crimes -- that is, if not died in office.
Who could enorgullecer last Communist head of Romania, Nicolaï Ceaucescu, and his wife were executed without even any semblance of a fair trial?
The formalities of a court real always seem to be better than the snapshot justice, although the final outcome is also death.
At present, there are two possible ways of taking action against a tyrant driven out.
A nation may lead to trial their own former leaders, as did the Argentineans in 1980 with the general responsible for the loss of more than 5.000 of its citizens.
At international level, the model of Nuremberg is still available to generate additional trials, albeit under conditions weasel with which the victorious powers sometimes allocated responsibility for the crimes, as in the case of the "crimes against humanity" , which were not properly defined at the time that were made.
There was a time when we could see the advantages of trials both national and international crime.
Trials internal allowed for the local community alleviate their sad to be closely involved in the process.
As judge and jury, the compatriots of defendants could also exert greater sensitivity to assess the fault because they were aware of the harsh conditions under which a dictator driven out had taken its decisions.
The trial of the generals in Argentina a ritual was successful in the painful transition from the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience there were many doubts.
Even after convictions, the generals were sufficiently powerful to ensure that ends trials and then obtain forgiveness from the incoming president.
The policy of Argentina is embroiled in the legal consequences of these judgments of 20 years ago.
At international level, the decision of the United Nations Security Council to establish the international Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia – ICTY as it is known English) was also received with great confidence.
The ICTY took effect in several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
But then, judges had the misfortune to which they are fulfilling their dream more ambitious -- judge in its court to archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
Now it is not clear how would have handled the Serbs Milosevic in a trial locally.
It would have very much dependent on the political party to monitor the court.
At international level, the fear was not to have too policy but right too.
The trial of Milosevic had to be only right; it had to be a emblem of justice of the UN.
That is why were allowed to Milosevic to defend itself -- a great mistake in terms of the duration and efficiency of the trial.
There was a limit to the number of witnesses to the tax called testimony to pay on the same horrific stories of aggression and Serbian brutality.
Many months will determine which was what went wrong and why the trial lasted four years, which is a scandal.
My corazonada is that officials well-intentioned Court were too influenced by the Commission for peace and reconciliation in South Africa, a model touted in schools of law as the desired alternative to justice of punishment.
In the South Africans processes the most important issue was not the future of the accused but the past of the victims.
It encouraged all victims to count its history and the defendant I listened to.
In the case of the massacres which were in the 20th century, these narraciones can take decades.
Encourage the victims and to speak after the accused the right of obstructing the process proclaims its merits and political leader amounts to a formula for the postponement infinite.
A lesson we have learnt from trials of Milosevic and Hussein is that we must not lead to trial men or women to put an end to its appeal charismatic.
Trastornarán the trial -- especially if they are allowed to defend themselves -- and use the Court to claim their careers.
To tyrants you only have to judge them after they have clearly been defeated.
Ironically, was an advantage for the Nuremberg cuts be composed of representatives of the victorious powers.
They were a constant reminder to Goering Hess, and his henchmen that the Allies had the control and that the Nazis were defeated irreversibly.
The clear objective of the trial was always punish those guilty, not to decide how they would write history.
The tragedy in cases of Milosevic and Hussein that history is not yet had written and was enjuiciando in history.
The indecision resulting from those who were in charge led to procedures -- both international and national -- which facilitate the fantasies of demand and return.
In the case of Hussein, this fantasy still may become a reality.
The economic divide in Iraq
Those who look to see Iraq a nation divided between communities Shiites, sunnitas and Kurdish.
But the growing gap between rich and poor in Iraq is a division equally crucial, which has helped to rebellion continuing as struggles sectarian and opposition to the occupation led by the United States.
When Iraq was released, most people, especially the poor, began to have hope to see a charismatic leader that the rescatara of bitter reality of daily life.
Since reared with fear, had no idea how could be applied democracy to its society and how could help human rights groups and other organisations civic to shape the future.
Very soon Iraq faced a new social division.
On the one hand people were including how operate in a democracy, how to achieve power and fulfil its ambitions.
Learned to speak the language of democracy and in the process obtained and money and influence influence influence independent organisations to defend their rights and privileges.
However, on the other side is the huge population of Iraqis without power, including the widows and divorced women abandoned and who have no who take them and their children.
These people for democracy and human rights mean nothing.
They are ignorant, poor and are sick.
They are victims of an education system which is colapsó over a decade ago and have few skills which will enable them to find employment in the economy ruined in Iraq.
During the regime of Saddam is not made efforts to raise the standard of living of the poor.
I have visited the extensive slums in Iraq and I found families living in homes hardly have ceiling, which are of infestadas insects and who are filtering waters black below the threshold.
Day and night living in the dark.
These families, who do not need more than food, decent housing and the possibility of having a job, expect the death hearing the terrible cries of their children who are dying of hunger.
When I met the women who live in these houses, I flooded with questions: does democracy will give us food and homes?
How will prevent men golpeen their wives?
Do you give citizenship to our children?
How will give us the right to divorciarnos of the husbands that leave us?
My response to all these questions was "yes" .
Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent home, learn and work and give citizenship to their children and will do the same for men.
But they must work hard and make every effort to demand their rights.
They replied: Saddam taught us for 35 years to be unemployed, silent and frightened.
What can we do now? '
In these areas deprived home to the majority of the Iraqi people are prey to the temptations bitter.
Many are beyond the scope of the political leaders and government.
Fall easily in violence, theft and sabotage.
Poverty leads to receive some money in exchange for carrying out acts of violence, instigados by the attractiveness of a false heroism which could not be implemented during the long regime of Saddam.
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq has meant that people becomes insensitive to kill.
Although the current conditions of Iraq are many young people to violence, I am convinced that all we have to do to save them is to jobs and decent housing.
Jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives through a serious work.
We must not use where jobs are not working to disguise an army of unemployed.
We should give people jobs that would enable them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.
Naturally, each individual search demonstrate that a person is useful for its society.
But the culture that Saddam created convinced Iraqis that the only way to obtain authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.
Overcoming these ideas will take time and active economy, which means that the new Iraqi government must have limited powers which will allow it to the private sector grow and at the same time allows a general understanding of democracy and human rights.
Religious groups are ready to contribute to this process.
Also, we can rehabilitate technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they too have the opportunity to serve their country.
Last but not least, we must provide funds for families to help them build a respectable life.
Above all, the government must make every effort to convince the Iraqis poor of the value of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the constitution to fulfil their aspirations of a better life.
It will not be easy to achieve that in a country in which many people believe that violate the law is an act of heroism.
But we Iraqis we have also learned that power should not be concentrated in just a few hands and to establish justice requires fight against corruption in all its forms.
For the constitution operates as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, the poor Iraqis must learn to take up this fight.
The identity Islamic
Currently, wherever that volteemos, is used Islam (and abused) him as a political force.
Some Muslims using it as called upon to act; many in the West (and elsewhere) this is perceived as a "other" to which we must contain and exclude.
Turkey, as I experiment directly both sides of this debate.
Why Islam appears in the eyes of the Western a religion of the "other" is that in the West given a was has has of religion.
Of course, is not religion what has disappeared of modern life Western, but what they can do religious institutions on the behaviour of the individual.
Religion in the modern world is an experience much more staff and spiritual than ever.
Also, however, in Islam is being given a process of desinstitucionalización experience religion.
The politicisation of Islam is replacing the authority of the kind of religion, the ulema.
As in the West, experience Islamic religious is becoming more staff.
One of the results is the interpretation of the texts religious personally that they are doing Muslims, including political activists, intellectuals and women.
Another is the vulgarización knowledge-based religious, which is abusing the lessons of the Koran and draw the context of support for political ends.
Who decides what is legitimate and what is illegal in Islam?
Who has the authority to interpret the texts religious?
Who can make a fatwa or declare "jihad" ?
Today, the activism and terrorism offer, or rather, impose a new source of legitimacy.
They are unwitting who decide what it means and what is not Islam, without the authority of religious schools and a specialist training.
In fact, Islam is currently interpreted through political actors and cultural movements and not religious institutions.
The desinstitucionalización has allowed Islam happens to be a link social local and national to forge links imaginary between all Muslims who feel oppressed or posted everywhere.
In this way, Islam can unite supporters that were previously deeply divided: the Muslim spiritual Sufis and the canonizados of the Shariat; the Shia Muslims and the sunnitas; the Conservative Saudi Arabia and the revolutionary Iran.
At the same time, Islam is shifting, with believers are emerging from rural areas to go to the cities, including those of the West.
Many see this movement as something negative, and underline the fact that these people are socially uprooted, leading to the disposal and, in some terrorism.
But social mobility is also a precondition for creating a modern vision.
Of course, through migration, Muslims feel a sense of alienation, if it is not that of rompimiento total, its social origins.
Thus, their experience of religion is a kind of new, private institutions of Community or state.
The experience religious becomes a form of social imagination, within which to rebuild a sense of belonging to the Islam in new areas and strange.
It is not the distance of modern life, but proximity to what it triggers a return to the religious identity.
In fact, the majority of the radicalismos arise in groups, for their experiences of mobility and movement, know the political thinking secular and urban life West.
Lost in its new environment, Islam becomes its anchor.
But for this anchor work, it is necessary to release Islam from its traditional position servile, passive and obedient to modernity.
To use a veil or beard, calling for the right to places to the sentence at work or school and to demand special food, Muslims are identified openly as such.
You are saying to all those around which are more zealous and meticulous in his religious observance that those who limiting their perception of private life.
For example, non-Muslims generally considered the veil as a sign of degradation and inferiority for women Muslim.
However, to be a stigma, for Muslims has become a sign of your statement positive Islamic identity.
Women Muslim young people in Europe perfectly illustrate this transformation.
Girls who take the pañoleta in mind in schools French and German are closer in many respects (namely youth culture, fashion and the language) their fellow women class that their mothers, without education and who stay at home.
By using the pañoleta in the field of European public, these girls are unintentionally altering the symbol and the role of women Muslim.
This trend goes beyond the pañoletas.
All Muslims Western have a dual sense of belonging, a cultural capital double.
Defined themselves through its religions, but also have acquired knowledge secular universal.
Given that have a cultural capital double, can travel with relative freedom between different activities and areas (the home, school, the youth associations and places of recreation urban).
Be Muslim and be Islamic is not the same.
What we are seeing today is a shift of a Muslim identity towards an Islamic identity.
The religious be for the Muslim is shifting ground of the public.
The question for all is whether the search for identity can be met with pañoletas and a wide public acceptance of the practices Islamic religious, or whether the positive statement of Islam requires a waiver most essential of modernity.
Does a new era for sciences Islamic?
For some hundreds of years, when sciences and mathematics went for a period of great inventions, a region of the world was highlighted.
It veneraba teachers of these disciplines, medicine has progressed quickly and people common interests in the form in which operated nature.
It is not surprising that this region outside globally respected.
In the other half of the world known is castigaba and were even murdered scientists.
Mathematics were banned because they considered outside religion and later were subordinate to this.
Living standards were low.
The prosperous region was the Middle East Islamic, while a Europe ignorant stays on poverty.
Both regions governments had religious (historians have not reached agreement on the role and the nature of religions in this context) but sciences flourished in only one of them.
Now, of course, the roles of the Islamic East and the West have been exchanged.
Since the Second World War, the United States has been the undoubted leader in scientific issues.
Throughout this period, the brightest students have emerged from their homelands attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutes.
Until recently, more than half of the egresados in the fields of mathematics, science and engineering in the United States were born abroad.
Many of these talents stayed after graduation and both industry and the government took it.
Meanwhile, the Islamic cultures entered in a historic period in which sciences be equipped with a Western influence and are avoided.
Even in those countries where the revenue from oil could promote a significant amount of research, the Arab leaders do not encourage these investments, and as a result their societies have not prospered as everything that could have.
Recently, a desire to achieve greater respect political has encouraged the Islamic nations to invest in technology. where it is most note that is in nuclear ambitions of Pakistan and Iran.
But although these weapons have political weight, the scientific concepts that are based are old and mundane.
It is most significant respect deriving from incubar ideas, that the resulting from products from previous discoveries.
Imagine the influence that there would be if an institute Pakistani outside the world leader in research into cancer.
How would change the political rhetoric if researchers from Omán discover the key to eliminate AIDS?
This is an opportunity that has not been seized.
But there is another, and not just for Islamic societies.
The United States has made mistakes serious recently.
The "issues of faith" have replaced sciences throughout the government, starting with the President.
Political officials have changed reports researchers of the actions contradict the official thinking.
Driven by an administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach to Sciences to the "values" .
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are more limited and difficult to obtain, which has reduced the flow of young talent to the American universities.
The scientific organisations important have protested, without achieving results.
At the same time, the tax laws have been changed to make richer investors in the short term, what discourages long-term investments in research.
In the Iraq war has been spent half billion dollars amount,, which was devoted to support any basic research in the last years.
Even if the United States will be waged a Middle Ages fundamentalist, clearly run the risk of losing their world dominance in the field of research.
Japan recognised the link between the political influence sciences and in the 1970s.
The main industrial Japan, Akio Morita, chairman of Sony, and the political Shintaro right Ishihara delivered a number of speeches recopilaron and published in 1986 in a book entitled The Japan that can say not Japan (which can say no).
Esbozaban a national strategy which meant that influence the of the scientific leadership.
The central idea was that the military power could be obsolete if other nations "ensure food chain" of military technology.
The title of the book relates to the plan Japan to say "no" to the military influence of the United States once Japan controlled military technology key.
Building a knowledge-based economy using the oil wealth is clearly as possible.
For example, Texas, like most of the southern states of the United States, ever was poor and economically was in decline.
Although had revenue from oil, the flow of dollars an economy in itself does not increase prosperity as might be imagined.
That is why Texas decided to spend their money from oil into a fund education.
Now this fund is similar to that of the Harvard University and distributed between 15 universities.
The effect has been impressive: the aerospace manufacturing almost disappeared in California but are booming in Texas.
A multitude of centres and telecommunications companies were to mudado Texas, even the giant Canadian telecommunications Nortel.
Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, has a Texas economies manufacturing stronger in the world.
There is no reason why we could not achieve the same result in the Middle East.
But first of all, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a legacy of which must be proud.
The debate on Iraq Iran
No country in the Middle East is more pending the events of the war in Iraq that Iran.
The geographical proximity, intense and bloody history of conflict with Iraq of Saddam Hussein connections, religious and emotional with Iraq Shiite and concerns about the United States and its policies in the region are all ties that bind Iran with its neighbour West.
Given the current tensions with US, Iran is particularly concerned about the likelihood that the Americans are established on a permanent basis in a neighbouring country, as well as the dominant role of US in determining the future of Iraq pos-Saddam.
To those outside the country may be difficult to follow the debates internal Iranian, but these exist and are intense, but not always visible to the public international more general.
There are three general approaches that can be recognised in the debate Iranian present on the pos-Saddam Iraq.
The pragmatists Iranian argue that inevitably Iran must cooperate with US, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in Iraq would not be hostile, and should seek bilateral relations friendly.
Other considerations vital to the pragmatists are the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees living in Iran.
These moderate think that the government of Iran should put pressure on the US to achieve the extradition of the Members of organisation the the (the MKO) that are based on Iraq, as well as the total decommissioning of this group.
In return for this, the government of Iran should give its support to the safeguarding of peace, stability and security in Iraq.
In short, the pragmatists would limit the dealings between Iran and the United States of America, keeping focused on a programme which reflect the concerns mainly within Iran.
The conservative forces in Iran support mainly this position.
Another position aspires a more active role and cooperative Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Supporters of this vision argue that Iran is in a good position to make the reconstruction is easier, due to their infrastructure well-established links and personal of Iraq.
Sooner or later, argue, the USA and the international community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
Cooperation Iranian should pay with the dismantling of the infrastructure of MKO in Iraq, perhaps with undertakings Iranian to increase its efforts to put an end to any activity of Al Qaeda, as well as expel Iran of their members.
More importantly, Iran should press for US give the assurance that their cooperation will be element mutual guarantee American that Iran will not be the aim of military action US in the future.
In short, the advocates of cooperation are calling for an open debate and explicit: support for Iran to stability during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government permanent that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position regional and international Iran.
This vision is very popular with the Iranian reformists (both inside and outside the government) and the class technocratic and commercial thinking more international.
Finally, for the Iranian radical, the possibility of establishing relations of cooperation with the United States of America is a pure fantasy.
They believe that the United States of America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
From the point of view of the radicals, the least that the United States of America is expected dictate major changes in the foreign policy of Iran.
And more than that which the Americans, argue, is pressing for a change of regime in Iran.
US will take initiatives against the acquisition of knowledge and nuclear energy by Iran, and may even try to weaken the military capacity general Iran.
These are radical invasion of the USA in Iraq as a reflection of the desire American surrounding Iran.
In response, believe that Iran must defend their interests actively in strategic alliances with Russia and other regional powers and using the influence of Iran in Iraq to prevent Baghdad that in government in pro-American and antiiraní.
The Radicals of all factions support this view.
To overturn the regime of Saddam was the easy part of the Iraqi crisi.
This is the difficult: to consolidate peace and security, win the war against terrorism and convince the Muslim masses that US does not intend to take Iraq, take over its oil and reshape the Middle East to its image and similar.
Meanwhile, is likely to increase opposition to the USA, expressed in bombazos suicide and other forms of terrorism.
Iran is destined to continue to play a role regional of first importance, because its dynamism and political identity its its its extensively in the Muslim world.
What is happening in Iraq will take implicancias of first importance to Iran, and the US is well advised in regard to seek ways of recognising this fact.
The American threats, or speculation about another war, inflame the flames of resentment and frustration in Iran, strengthening forces more radical.
If US wishes to avoid this result, must see limit the influence of their own radical, recognising that American interests in Iraq benefit from greater cooperation with Iran.
The departure of Iraq
Has finally been reached the point where Iraq in the world tode ostensibly wants the same thing: the departure of the country of the coalition forces.
The recent leak of a document of the British Ministry of Defence on the withdrawal of troops highlights this wish.
The only question is how satisfacerlo.
While the coalition forces are still there, it is likely that violence increases.
But if they are, will also increase, but more quickly.
The real question is how to reach the point where Iraq has a police and army to which we can rely the maintenance of law and order.
Progress must be made a great deal to even closer.
Despite the value of the many Iraqis who are coming to the army or police, it is no surprise that some may have reasons that are not as cigars.
In northern Iraq are saldando old scores and introduced a was has has de facto in areas such as Irbil which have traditionally diverse.
In other areas has been introduced by force Sharia law.
How, then, can create Iraq uniformed services to which we can rely law enforcement efficiently and of considerations of ethnic, religious or gender?
The traditional response is recruiting, training and inculcating values' ' .
But there is no time for that.
We need other methods.
In the absence of a system of values deeply rooted, Iraq needs civil society organisations that make the police and the army accountable.
Could take different forms, but what is important is that really are inclusive at local level, which receive support structures power of national and regional when indicated that there is abuse.
If there is scrutiny local and strengthening and national recognition of the value of that scrutiny, then it is likely that the majority of Members of forces uniforms behave properly -- and to be able to identify and punish more easily if they do not do so.
This might seem too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country similar to Iraq in many respects, there are groups who are working to achieve that goal.
Cooperation for peace and unity CPAU () provides a model of the way in which this can be done.
In Afghanistan, as in Iraq, the priority of the ordinary people has been achieve a reduction of violence.
The CPAU worked throughout the country over the last three years to establish peace committees level to in to supported by councils peace of peoples.
The initiative is facing a culture in which violence is rooted so that ever children learned arithmetic count the number of Soviet soldiers dead.
Therefore, the committees seeking to all sectors of the Community -- including teachers, tribal leaders and religious, women, police, soldiers, judges and employers -- to work together to design non-violent ways to resolve conflicts.
Although the supervision has not been a formal part of the role of the committees until now -- it is envisaged that it will be in the future, the simple fact that the police, the army and the judiciary are part of these committees the puts in contact with the rest of the Community, provides feedback and begins to create confidence.
Some results are clear.
In a workshop, the military commander local attended a couple of hours per courtesy and staying ended the whole week.
In the end apologised for his violent past and undertook to disarm his private army of 2.000 Members.
Now visit regularly offices of the committee.
In Iraq, projects such as the centre of humanitarian link in Kirkuk are beginning to meet a supervisory role by offering the local population, in diverse ethnic, the opportunity to present their complaints and help to resolve them.
But all too often, even when there is a court judgment, this does not apply to cause of intimidation.
The US and British forces have already done very good work to strengthen civil society.
We hear talk about the workshops to empowering women or the organisation successful elections small-scale throughout the country.
But to mobilise civil society is a huge challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, needs to be done quickly and on a large scale.
Military force is still needed, but so too are the incentives to lay down their arms, including prospects for economic opportunities that are more lucrative than crime and extortion.
Fortunately, build capacity for civil society is as cheaply as important.
The Centre liaison humanitarian meets all Kirkuk an annual cost of barely 75.000 dollars.
With 10 million dollars these centres are could say 100 times -- and have been voiced enough.
The challenge is commit to this approach, strengthen and give its full support to the courageous people facing the challenge of held accountable to power.
Otherwise, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people will be security, after so many years of suffering, urgently needed.
Does democracy in the Nile?
The decision sorpresiva chairman of the Mubarak of proposing a constitutional amendment which would hold presidential elections direct and competitive may be a gigantic step forward for democracy in Egypt and the Arab world.
The western used to pluralist democracy, simply find it difficult to understand the enormity of change potential that this could mean in a country used to military government for over 50 years.
Under the current system, the Egyptian citizens can only be presented the day a presidential referendum every six years and vote in favour or against the single name on the ballot.
This explains why someone like Mubarak always received more than 90% of the votes, although it has been with participation indifferent.
The leaders of Syria and Iraq have been even better with this system, certainly because demanding that the names and directions of voters featured the calce of each vote.
Many have argued for a long time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not progress so much that Egypt commit itself fully with the process.
Egypt could not really go down the road of democratisation reform without first its constitution -- to reduce the powers faraónicos of its chairman and restrict their period of government.
After all, Mubarak is already 24 years as chairman.
Therefore, the announcement that it wants presidential elections competitive is an important first step.
The regime can assume that will use the process for their benefit, but perhaps events are not so easy to control when the people begin to feel that has power.
The spirit of democracy already came out of the bottle.
In any case, Egypt is not the only country in this troubled region to take the path to democracy.
Turkey, on the one hand of the Middle East, Morocco and on the other, are quite advanced.
This time the real impetus appears to come from the proximity and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and to a lesser extent Saudi Arabia.
The unprecedented demonstrations against the Syrian occupation in Lebanon after the murder of the former Prime Minister Rafiq al-Hariri, no signs of calm down.
Also opposition groups Egyptians have done parades increasingly bold and other forms of civil disobedience in recent weeks.
The catalyst for their fury was the arrest of patients opposition leader Ayman Nour at the end of January.
The conduct of tough government's revitalizó the movement local "Kifaya" (enough), which demanded an end to the regime Mubarak.
Suddenly, the popular view that the Egyptians are passive and fearful to act does not seem to be true.
It is forming an alliance of forces local, regional and international against the tyranny of "normal" of the banks of the Nile.
The recent wave of popular pressure seems to have shaken the regime.
Only a month ago, desechaba Mubarak the demands of constitutional reforms pronouncing them in vain.
But anyone who has been the combination of elements what that to change of opinion, we must welcome the initiative for the elections.
It is a first necessary step -- but insufficient -- in order to redesign the stalled political system in Egypt.
The Egyptians are already suspicious of the reforms symbolic the style of the Tunisia, where Chairman the the Abidin the bin Ali, with a long time in power, created a caricature of constitutional amendment which seemed to open the doors to the elections competitive, and then create an electoral farce with some opponents' chosen for it.
In referenda presidential previous bin Ali normally received 99% of the vote. this time was 96%.
Let us hope that Mubarak taken more seriously electoral reform.
As a sign of honesty, must organise the immediate release of Ayman Nour and take steps to put an end to the state of emergency which takes over the last 24 years and which prevents in deeds carried out presidential campaigns.
Mubarak must also support a limit of not more than two consecutive periods of five years for any president.
Confidence-building measures are also needed and include the open, fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the state.
I announced that I intend to play the forthcoming presidential elections as a way of opening the debate on these essential reforms.
But with regresaría taste in my life of citizen once they ensure free and open elections in the autumn.
If implemented seriously, these measures will transform the legacy of Mubarak.
Together with the events in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine well, a spring Arab freedom that should have come a long time ago.
Is it to be a historic choice in Egypt?
The Egyptians go into the elections on 7 September to elect a president of ten candidates, including those who have been for 24 years, Hosni Mubarak.
Although a few doubts whether the outcome will be the re-election of the latter, many are passionately following the process.
Some 6,000 observers national received training for those elections and hundreds of foreign correspondents are converging in the country this week.
Although all the details formal a real election campaign are present, important aspects of authenticity are conspicuous by their absence.
Despite the promises made to the contrary, the playing field is far from being the same for everyone.
Mubarak continues to active disproportionate: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly of the electronic media state-controlled and 85 per cent approximately print media.
A week before the elections, some opposition candidates have not yet been able to table an announcement electoral on television Egyptian.
All the members of the Committee on the presidential elections have been appointed by Mubarak and the new rules electoral have removed all candidates independent.
Since 2000, the 8,000 judges of Egypt must monitor and certify the election results, according to a resolution of the Supreme Court.
It was an important step in the direction of elections fairer, because the professional association of the judiciary has continued to count quite independence, despite the attempts of the executive of arrebatársela over half a century.
So the regime Mubarak has had to resort to various tricks of neutralise the association of the judiciary.
One was to extend the definition of "judiciary" to include thousands employees of government of which have titles of graduates in law, but not judicial experience, which leaves unarmed to the real judges, because, if protesting boycotting its duties of monitoring, the task will fall again in the police force of the infamous Home Office.
Thus, in the past the association of the judiciary used to say, as well as with results predictable.
In the parliamentary elections of 2000, while the ruling party Mubarak received 38 percent around the popular vote in districts monitored by the real judges, that percentage has become no less than 86 per cent where supervision conducted by the cuasijueces.
This year that appears to be very different.
In the spring judges held a National Assembly and decided that, unless the regime accorded total independence and the exclusive supervision of the process of voting, not supervisarían the next presidential elections (or parliamentary).
On 2 September presented its demands: the end allow civil society groups observed the process of voting, ending interference in the definition of judges legitimate with a view to the elections and access to the permanent presence of a judge legitimate in front of each of the ballot box until it has been told certificate, communication and its content.
Until now, it is likely that the situation is a blind alley, because the President of the Commission election stated publicly on television Egyptian which rejects the supervision of the electoral process by all citizens.
Another interesting innovation on the eve of the elections is a enconado public debate on whether to vote or boycott the presidential elections.
Various opposition parties have asked its members not participating: to protest against standards electoral restrictive which encourage enormously to Mubarak.
Furthermore, the Muslim brothers, considered the group opposition stronger Egypt, are urging his followers to go out and vote and to do so in good conscience, but not to support any politician "despotic and corrupt." 
This is a clear, though, implicit repudiation of Mubarak, the only ruling in 24 years.
Thirty-four civil society organisations are preparing to thousands of young people Egyptians to observe the elections, despite the repeated objections government.
These groups argue that, if the regime does not intend rigging the election results, the presence of observers national and foreign of the electoral process must not be a problem.
The response of the regime is that any external supervision is a violation of the Egyptian sovereignty and the national observers are an affront to the integrity of judges.
This argument was negated quickly when the association of the judiciary announced that supported the presence of observers from civil society.
Whether the regime Mubarak is frightened to the demands internal and external increasing to hold free and fair elections or is simply unable to refine the Party of its natural tendency to fraud, the current signals are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.
In the meantime, the Egyptians are undergoing for the first time the emotion of challenge tyranny and enjoy an area new-found for freedom.
The envy of Europe towards the dollar
The coins can become the source not only of commercial transactions, but diplomatic disputes and policies.
When this happens, commercial transactions are made more difficult and are subject to greater uncertainty.
The politicisation of money for the depression of entreguerras was economically devastating.
But there have been cases most recent perverse struggles of coins.
In 60 the order international monetary became the focus of a guerrilla policy.
Each side was theories and quite different explanations about what happened.
Europeans (in particular, the French) social Affairs complained about what the General Charles de Gaulle called the "exorbitant privilege" of the US dollar.
The general and its monetary gurú, Jacques Rueff, argued strongly that US used the status of the dollar as the main reserve currency caused by the system of fixed exchange rate Bretton Woods to take deficits and pay their military adventures abroad (at that time, Vietnam).
France was called upon to a monetary reform to do away with the peculiar role of the dollar and try to revive the gold standard, for then very discredited.
Europeans began a long discussion on the advantages of monetary union, achievement that would enable them to look to the dollar face to face.
However, from the point of view American, the international role of dollar was a trap.
Other countries could change their exchange rates and this gave greater competitiveness to its exports.
The US Government was powerless in the face of a yen devalued, which feed the belief that the rest of the world the dollar used to attack the basis US manufacturing.
The administration Nixon came to the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was unilateralism monetary: a monetary expansion so radical that other countries they were obliged to adjust their exchange rates.
These battles, long forgotten, have become suddenly very topical.
The world is no longer a system of fixed exchange rate, but the dollar remains the main reserve currency, a species Bretton Woods floating.
The Americans for the role of reserve of the dollar is a potential threat, while for the rest of the world this is another example of ambition the the the US.
In this decade, China has taken place in Japan in 60, maintain its exchange rate under to stimulate growth of its exports.
Consequently, it is the target of complaints US by unfair competition and their efforts to force an adjustment of the exchange rate which will ensure that the Americans will cease to buy toys, equipment and clothing manufacturing Chinese.
The US manufacturers have decided that clothing internal Chinese constitutes a threat to the American way of life.
Meanwhile, Europeans (particularly the French) complain about the major US deficits and again it is fashionable the argument de Gaulle that the rest of the world is paying for the US wars.
Some Europeans suggest that the central banks Asian should have a larger part of its reserves in euros, which is a echo of the failed attempt by the general force to vendiera US dollars and received gold.
The 60 ended in a fall apart "system" and in an important financial turbulence, accompanied by an increase inflationary in commodity prices.
All were injured, and the US role in world affairs received a major blow.
If there were now, a similar collapse would probably be a different effect.
The system rate of it is stronger and costs adjustments are distributed differently.
The majority of Americans are not too by the strong falling dollar, since the sellers goods of that adjust their prices for the US market.
The Asian economies are growing vigorously and their central banks are accumulating loan bonds of the USA.
It is possible to continue with this policy, since the alternative would be a sharp decline in the competividad areas exporters in the very important American market.
This gives US more time to deal with a deficit of current account that, in the long term, is unsustainable.
The regions of the world economically dynamic, North America and Asia, then they are linked by a Pact that will ensure the continuity of the central role of the US dollar.
The Americans will accumulating debt, as you like Asians.
Break the pact would go against the interests of both parties.
This is not American unilateralism, because that means working with Asia.
But for Europeans, who are excluded from the Pact, this is seen as a unilateralism monetary and economic.
Meanwhile, the rise of the euro against the dollar creates major hardships for exporters of European manufacturing.
However, Europe cannot do much to ease the situation.
In fact, it will be the main damaged the new monetary struggles.
The answers that are raised in the 60 (reviving the gold standard, or the invention of a common European currency) no longer appear to be very useful.
Having a single currency has not provided a substantial protection.
The old version of the European response, what the sicólogos would envy "dollar" , will only grow.
There will be called the European Central Bank to extend its monetary basis, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all problems industrial, structural and demographic affecting Europe.
But a moment's reflection we must remember that the probelmas of Europe cannot be solved by monetary manipulation.
We must see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant US privilege for what it is: a way of countering the fundamental lack of power in Europe.
So that the envy of the dollar came to stay, and will be even more as the international value banknotes green is falling, adverse effects without without without the people that the print and used.
An epidemic policy
The Americans, as citizens of many other countries in the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some public servants.
A few surprise us (although some people are very disappointed) to be given a position of federal judge or diplomatic high-level a candidate who come evidence of loyalty on principles which are important for the Party of the chairman or the Prime Minister.
But almost everyone agrees that sciences are something else, and that, in the United States are becoming an instructive example to the rest of the world.
The scientific appointments should be based on objective criteria for training, capacity and performance.
Obviously, it is legitimate to interrogate a future secretary health and human services (SSH) on its position on abortion.
But to submit evidence of political allegiance to those who have been appointed to participate in advisory committees scientific totally out of place.
In the same way, the membresía bodies in carrying out the revision of the proposals scientific their peers (process which is fundamental to scientific progress) should certainly be barrier-free which do not relate to the professional qualifications.
Unfortunately, the scientists in the EU are increasingly finding themselves involved in barriers of this kind.
Last autumn, the magazine Science published several articles relating to this issue.
One narraba substitution mass of members of the advisory committee of the national Centre for environmental health, which forms part of centres for the prevention and control of diseases (CDC by its acronym in English), without consulting the director of the centre.
Other similar cases took place in the advisory Committee on poisoning lead and its prevention, the advisory Committee on protections in research human and the Advisory Committee on genetic tests.
The epidemic of current ideology, which are closing or reconstituyen with new Member consultative committees and under the candidates for evidence of loyalty is nothing new for some observers.
Officials SSH say that it is "a practice very common." 
Well, it is not common practice in the United States -- or at least not used to be.
In any case, what is more worrying is not that the Bush administration to examine the candidates to see whether they are compatible with their "values" .
What is most alarming is the depth that have reached the findings on ideology, which are invading areas than ever were immune to this kind of manipulation.
In fact, perhaps the case more revealing of the growing political epidemic was the change of staff section of studies of the National Institute for safety and health at work, which evaluates grants to study the injuries in the workplace.
It may be that the advisory committees have been in the past vulnerable to occasional manoeuvres of this kind.
After all, they recommend lineamientos politicians may or may not be taken into account.
But do sections of study?
In October 2002, Science published an editorial signed by David Michaels and a group of colleagues.
Several were former public servants distinguished who had participated in some of the committees in question, and provided a valuable perspective on the matter, based on their personal experiences.
Article in itself was interesting, but what happened after it was still further.
Triggered an avalanche of letters from scientists who relataban similar experiences.
A applying to join the Committee coordinator of investigations Distrofia on about on belonging to the national institutes, told that one staff member of the White House the questioned.
After several answer questions about their views with regard to various policies of the Bush administration, none of them relating to the work of the Committee were asked whether they supported the policy of the chairman on embryonic stem cells.
In another letter, a distinguished professor of psychiatry and narró psychology that had received a phone call from the White House about your nomination to participate in the National Council on abuse of drugs.
The person who telephoned him informing him that had to be investigated "to determine whether had views which could prove embarrassing for the Chairman." 
According to Professor, the official of the White House he was a number of questions and bore the account.
One example: "you have been two of three; the chairman opposes needle exchanges (for users of drugs intravenosas) on moral grounds, regardless of the outcome." 
Later, the exchange was changed more chilling.
The official asked the nominated if had voted by Bush, and to hear that, not asked: "why do not you supported the chairman?" 
This happens in dictatorships, not in democracies.
The objective of an advisory committee scientific is to give advice balanced and thoughtful in the process of political decisions.
Nothing is achieved -- and a lot has been pierde-cuando it emphasises the result of political wishes.
That is why it is that decisions on what research projects will have to support always have been taken on the basis of studies by peers, not political.
In fact, the regulations applicable to this -- the federal law committees Consultivos-exige specifically that the committees are balanced and that "are not unduly influenced by the authority that the appointed." 
The Secretary health services and human EU, Tommy Thompson and the office staff of the White House should set an example to the rest of the world.
You can do very easily: complying with the law.
A murder in Moscow
It is time to put an end to the fiction of that "dictatorship of law" Putin meant that Russia post-comunista be less anarchic.
The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and most courageous journalists of Russia, a woman who dared to make the brutal murder committed by Russian troops in Chechnya, is the final proof that the President Putin did not do more to offer a dictatorship ordinary, with the usual disregard for the law.
It is right that the world, particularly Europe, take into account this acceptance.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Germany is preparing a policy on relations Russian/German will cult of indifference towards the illegality of Putin in the national interests of the most powerful member of the European Union.
But the indifference becomes appeasement when encourages Putin to implement its anarchic form in the international arena, and in its current campaign to regulate the economy of Georgia.
The murder of Politkovskaya generated a frightening feeling of déjà vu: like at the height of the KGB, people simply disappears in Putin's Russia.
The murder of Politkovskaya is the third death ribetes with politicians in three weeks.
Ziganshin Enver, main engineer BP Russia, was murdered with a firearm in Irkutsk on 30 September.
Andrei Kozlov, the vicegobernador of the Central Bank in Russia that lideraba a campaign against financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.
The fact that the public prosecutor of Russia, the general Yuri Chaika, to charge of the investigation into the murder of Politkovskaya, as it did with the murder of Kozlov, not generates expectations, as would participation to high level in any real democracy.
In fact, the participation of the highest level of government of Russia is almost a guarantee that will ever be found to the murderers.
The murder of Politkovskaya is a particularly omen dismal when we bear in mind that it was a severe criticism of the President of Russia.
In its articles on one of the few independent newspapers remaining in Moscow, Novaya Gazeta, and in his book "Putin's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "dirty war: Russian Reporter in Chechnya" (a dirty war: a reportera Russian in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote on the disipación freedoms which is marking identification of the Presidency of Putin.
As is shown by the exile of the former employers media Boris Berezovsky and Vladimir Gusinky, and the incarceration tanker of tycoon of the three destinations lie ahead for the enemies of Putin: exile, prison or the grave.
I am not accusing the government of Putin's murder in the pay of Politkovskaya.
After all, as a journalist research enfureció many people and Putin, one of these is nothing less than the current Prime Minister Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy abductions of in
But even if the partners Vladimir Putin they have nothing to do with the murder of Politkovskaya in the lift from your department in the centre of Moscow, the disregard of the chairman by law led to the climate in which perpetrates killing.
As the murder of Archbishop Thomas Beckett in its cathedral of Canterbury many centuries ago, the crime was committed in the clear conviction that would be happy to the King.
With regard to what Politkovskaya represented -- the responsibility of a democratic press to question the Kremlin and its policies -- the government should have ensured that nothing wrong it happened.
Putin's Russia already lost 12 prestigious journalists who were murdered in the last six years.
None of these crimes has been resolved, which would not be the case if the dictatorship of the "right" Putin is something other than a public relations strategy.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came to Kremlin has been a time signs of.
On the one hand, the world sees a leader young and educated which promises to modernise Russia, particularly in terms of align their judicial practices and compliance with the law with international standards.
On the other hand, the chairman notes silent while their former colleagues in the Security Service FSB Russia (the former KGB) I cannot offer any certainty to the murdered and launch a number of causes espionage of journalists, of scientists and environmental activists.
Between these "neo" spies contained the journalist Grigori Pasko, the expert on arms control Igor Sutyagin, diplomatic the Valentin the the physical the the the and others.
The influence supposedly civilising be partner a a a chair a at the G8 Summit in St Petersburg, for example -- seems to have been allayed in intrigued by the Kremlin's Putin.
Once again, exposure to Western values generated other city Potemkin; Russia presents a facade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the decorated cardboard govern the same beasts arbitrary.
The danger for the world is that the anarchy of Putin is being exported.
Throughout the foreign close to Russia, is rooting diplomacy a way of
Let us look at the Putin's attempt to manipulate fraudulently the previous presidential elections in Ukraine and the criminal charges intermittent presented against leader of the opposition the the the.
Let us look at the separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia which exist only thanks to the support of the Kremlin.
Let us look at the way in which the Kremlin is attempting to blackmail its neighbours threatening to interrupt supply of energy.
All police knows that when it ignores the criminal behaviour, criminals are more appeal.
It is time that the world recognise Vladimir Putin for what it is: a man who is retrotrayendo Russia in the shadows.
So the world today must consider the age-old practice in qui Latin Latin videtur Latin -- the silence means consent -- and ask ourselves whether it is intelligent consent to silence the building that Putin makes a superpower energy without law.
The Russian gas pipeline towards the empire
Gerhard Schroeder, who until less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, be accepted chairman of the company that is building a gas pipeline from Russia, via the Baltic Sea to Germany, and from there to Western Europe.
In many countries, Schroeder it acusaría now of the crime of conflict of interest.
The apparent lack of ethics is growing by the fact that, at this precise moment Russia is threatening to interrupt the gas supply to Ukraine if that country does not yield to the demands of price of gas giant property of the Kremlin, Gazprom.
The strategic role of Russia is obvious: to interrupt the gas supply to Ukraine also means interrupt a large part of the gas to Europe, because some of its gaseoductos larger through Ukraine.
To avoid Ukraine, Poland and, of course, the Baltic countries, the new gas pipeline promises given greater influence the Kremlin with a view to reposition themselves regionally.
The President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of the former KGB soon will not have to worry about Western Europe when they are deciding what such strong pressure on the post-Communist neighbours of Russia.
Does Europe really should give Putin this new weapon imperial?
Or worse, could Russia to use this weapon against the European Union which is committed to energy?
The fact that a former German Chancellor will lead the company that can give Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is testimony to the dangerous complacency in Europe for ambitions the amendments the Putin.
Certainly, the Russian media are aware of the increasing Europe's dependence on Russian energy.
In fact, are feasting themselves with her: after integrate and increase our business common gas, write the editorialistas Russians, Europe guardará silence on human rights.
Putin expresses this position more of its commitment to do what the called a "independent policy" .
What you mean by that is that Russia must be "independent" of the moral concerns and human rights of Western democracies.
Perhaps some European leaders really believe that the maintain comfortable prosperity of the Union justifies silent on human rights and other issues which upset the Kremlin.
Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, on matters "commercial" as the expropriation of Yukos, but if the Kremlin is a price to our values or criticism of offences committed by Russia -- in, for example, the Chechnya bloody Europeans -- seem to be prepared to their mouths shut up so as not to face the possibility that there will be a rise in prices, energy or even a blockade and the Ukraine which now faces.
As reordena Putin hue, dependent on the Duma to their will, the expectations of the European Union greater Europeanization of Russia should be abandoned.
Russia that Putin is building has mutated the hopes post-Soviet of freedom to a bastion of gas and oil for its new elite former KGB.
In fact, Matthias Warnig, the chief executive of the consortium of gas pipeline that Schroeder chairing, is a friend of long Putin.
The wall Street Journal reported at the beginning of this year Warnig, who conducts the Russian branch of the Dresdner Bank, agent of the Stasi, the secret police of East Germany, and to Putin experienced at the end of the 1980s when the Russian president was in East Germany as spy of the KGB.
The fact that the Russians tolerate a government of former members of the KGB, for whom the lack of compassion and intolerance to dissent is the rule, reflects its exhaustion of the fuss over the last twenty years.
Now the Kremlin seems to believe that what is good for the Russians common is good for the independent countries: small countries and not weak they will have sympathy once Russia gets the tools to intimidating them, calling amenazarlos and with the possibility of a blockade energy.
As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
The European Union has signed many agreements with Russia, including one of "common area" for freedom and justice.
The Kremlin is very good to pretend that idealism.
Their control over Eastern Europe always imposed on the basis of "treaties friendship" , and the Soviet invasions Hungary in 1956 and in 1968 Czechoslovakia were missions "fraternal." 
But we must see how Putin abused this space "common" : the brutal treatment to the Chechens, the employer Mr Khodorkovsky in prison, the harassment of NGO's, the false accusations against the colideresa the Orange Revolution last year, Yuliya Tymoshenko, by prosecutors Russian military.
If Europeans take seriously their common area for human rights and freedom, must recognise that these values are not shared by officials calculating the Kremlin Putin.
The same applies when we consider Russia as an ally in the fight against terrorism.
Is it really conceivable that the land of the "red terror" , with countless crimes without punishment of the Soviet era, and that leads traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, will provide a reliable aid to stop threats to world of Iran and North Korea?
It seems likely that the Cold minds the Kremlin simply will exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase its destructive power and influence.
For decades, my region of Europe was left to the mercy of evil.
Therefore, I cannot stay silent while Europe has blindly towards a new appeasement.
We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, we have learned from our heritage that behind every act diplomatic Russia is an ambition imperial.
Western Europeans, which is discharged from this heritage, should listen to our warnings.
Dependence on Russia -- even if its current face is the supposedly "charismatic" Gerhard Schroeder -- only lead to the abyss.
The bullets and the votes of Iraq
When the Iraq War began in 2003, the Bush administration had ambitious plans: as in Germany and Japan after 1945, expected a long occupation and peaceful, during which the increasing oil production ensure prosperity increasing as a construyeran to a democratic structures.
The basis would be a constitution liberal, even posmoderna, with everything and the guarantee of 25% of the curules of Parliament for women.
In Iraq today there is no peace or prosperity.
The constitution that will be put to the vote on 15 October that includes 25% rule, but otherwise is far from being liberal.
The key provision (Article 2) that no law can contradict "rules indisputable of Islam" violates the basic principle of parliamentary sovereignty and prevent legislation comply with international standards.
For example, the age of consent sexual cannot be set at the top of the nine years, because Mohammed same had a wife nine years.
It follows that girls nine years are also adult under criminal law and are subject to the maximum sentence for, say, turn to another religion.
In broader terms, the Shiites can use this provision, to put its ayatolas above the elected parliament, and in Iran, just because they are entitled to determine the "rules of Islam." 
To foreigners and the few liberal Iraqis are concerned mainly this provision Islamic, but the widespread opposition of the Sunni to the constitution is aimed at other provisions: the exclusion of party ' ath "Sadamista" of political life and the government and the federalist provisions that give autonomy to the 18 provinces Iraqis and allow them to be combined to form regional governments.
The rule of exclusion is a personal matter for the elite of the Sunni -- including thousands of employers, profesionistas, even artists -- because, with few exceptions, were all members of the ba ath .
In theory, the constitutional ban could be interpreted as applicable only to future.
But in practice, have now been taken administrative rules for excluding the so-called members "high-ranking" of the ba ath of any kind employment of thousands have been affected.
The Sunni perhaps accept the provisions federalist if they were only applicable to the Kurds.
You know that the alternative is not a return to centralism but the secession of the three provinces most of Dahuk Arbil and, as Sulaymaniyah to form a Kurdistan independent, with its own finance, Army (the Pesh Merga) and oil production around -- Kirkuk which has the second reserves of Iraq.
The Sunni reject the same federalism for the Shiites because the consider Arab brothers who have always accepted the Sunni government in the past and we will accept -- unless they have their own government.
That is what the new Constitution would, because the provinces of Shiite majority in the south -- where it is most oil resources in Iraq -- could form their own regional government.
The usual style of the Middle East, the leaders Sunni disappointed and unhappy with the Constitution are now threatening with violence.
But federalism is not the reason why the Sunni Islamists who preach the supremacy lay their lethal attacks.
Their opposition is more fundamental: do not accept the democratic principle of government of the majority.
Instead seek to restore the rule of the few Sunni.
For the Islamists, any form of the Shiites deserve death, for apóstatas.
A Shiite leader, Moqtada Sadr, also strongly opposes the federalism.
His followers are the Shiites illiterate, mostly poorest violence and the slums in Baghdad and elsewhere whose militia ' fought against the American troops in 2004, even though they were protected Shi'ites of attacks Sunni.
As priest very young which derives its authority of their father died -- a populist ayatollahs -- the ayatolas live Iraq, who ignores its ignorance and violence, oppose Sadr.
Sadr cannot compete in any way with them as regards religious authority, so we adopt a position nationalist Arab against them, often by recalling that the highest Shiite priest, Ayatollah, Sistani Persian is not Arab.
Similarly, I would like to remind her that the supporters the Hakim, who lead the Supreme Council to the Islamic revolution in Iraq and its militia "Badr" were exiled subsidised in Iran -- and many of them fought on the side of Iran in the long term and bitter Iran-Iraq war -- until the Americans "the presence of return." 
Sadr opposes the federalism because a regional government Shiite obedecería his enemies, Sistani and the Supreme Council and, he says, would fall under the influence of Iran.
To highlight your message, Sadr sent their men to attack militia the the the successful in Baghdad, where the Mahdi are numerous, but without it in Najaf, where it to hate Sadr for the destruction caused last year -- until the Americans massacred their men.
It was a bad deal with Sadr as gangster; arithmetic simple policy is now saying that he will probably be the central figure to decide the outcome of the vote will take place in October on the constitution.
To reject it and forcing new elections for a constituent assembly, opponents need a majority of two thirds in at least three provinces.
It is likely that the Sunni only win on two provinces, but if you Sadr mandated its supporters of the slums Baghdad to vote "no" in conjunction with the local Sunni, this could mean gain in the capital opponents of the Constitution, which ensure its defeat.
As hampón political Sadr is of course prepared to sold.
Last year it was looking for murder.
You now want to money, recognition as statesman and humiliation, at least implicit, Sistani and the Supreme Council.
Could receive offers and perhaps negotiations have already begun.
But some Shiites to those who attack with words and bullets have thousands of armed supporters and think that only you should offer bullets.
The collapse of the secret police
As noted the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc Gyurcsany, when a confession recorded that his government was lying encouraged unrest, openness in the government is not something that emerges easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.
Like Hungary, Romania the the fought to the increasing transparency and honesty in what ever was one of the societies more closed in the world.
While fighting, secrecy continuous led to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
However, were eventually real progress towards frankness, recognised by the European Union when it gave the green light Romania to join the EU at the beginning of 2007.
In addition to achieve what the EU considers today a functioning market economy , there were political changes and legal fundamental that I myself supervisé as Minister of Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the financing of political parties until a shake-up of the judiciary.
Judicial reforms, in turn, are helping to eradicate corruption.
Issued is it is former ministers and ministers cabinet in office, Members of Parliament, judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, police and customs officers, and other public servants, as well as managers of private companies.
It is also introduced new forms standard for declarations of assets and financial interests on the part of anyone who has a official capacity in the government, parliament, the public administration and local and the judicial system.
The new statements are the most detailed in Europe and, more importantly, are made public.
Romania's progress is confirmed by a report distributed at the beginning of this month, which shows that citizens' access to information from the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent to that of democracies laid down.
In fact, the report, transparency and silence, carried out by initiative the the society the open (available in www.justiceinitiative.org) indicates that, to some extent, the old democracies have something to learn from the new: certain government agencies in Romania were more sensitive to requests for information of citizens other agencies comparable in France and Spain.
Specifically, in Romania is responded to 60% of orders presented, compared with 31% in France and 24% in Spain.
Other countries which have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, which were adopted laws of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after that in Romania.
However, obtain access to sensitive information in democracies in transition is not always easy, and I can explain this by my previous job as a lawyer human rights for the Helsinki Committee of Romania.
Often we had to resort to the Court to force a disclosure of information, appealing to the freedom of Information Act of 2001 Romania.
For example, even when ganábamos a case which had to do with access to records telephone tapping authorised by the general public prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor simply ignoring the judicial order.
Presentábamos civil proceedings against the prosecutor and the judge a fine imposed by every day that information was withheld.
But newly when we catch the attention of the media was that, were made public data -- that detailing the amount of telephone tapping authorised within the previous 10 years, against whom and for how long.
With its publication, Romania began to move away from its past dominated by the Securitate.
Today, within the government, I am aware that the sharing of information with the public is sometimes difficult.
But when it is necessary to implement reforms painful, there is no alternative.
We could not have implemented the economic and political reforms that we valieron an income as a member of the EU if we had not put our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in decision-making which inevitably goes hand in hand with this frankly.
What is more, this has become a sine qua non of democratic government throughout the world.
When the United States adopted its freedom of Information Act in 1996, we accepted the exclusive company Sweden and Finland.
Today there are almost 65 countries where such laws.
In Romania, who fought for a law on freedom of information made full use of it.
As part of the study initiative of those who requested information from the government of Romania is offered voluntarily the kind of information which would have been unthinkable disseminate just a few years ago.
The Ministry of Defence Romania, for example, revealed the amount of staff of the armed forces who died in 2003, as well as the causes of death (including 13 suicides, two shootings and two deaths in fighting in Afghanistan).
In the same way, he asked the Court in Bucharest to report on the number of judges disciplined since the beginning of 2000, even the arguments for any sanctions applied.
The Court transferred the asked the Board of Governors of the judiciary, who gave a full response: a list of four pages of all the judges punished with details of the reasons and sanctions.
This kind of information is both a product as an engine of the ongoing reform.
Was not always easy for those in government, and there is still a reluctance criticism of sensitive documents.
But, in the former Communist bloc, the benefits which meant transparency have been undeniable.
At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secret remains a threat to the core values of the democratic governance, and that only the constant vigilance, both in established democracies and in young women, can prevent transferred their limits.
Save trees life
Nobody can spend a day without using a product that has come from a forest.
To a greater extent than most people realize, the paper on which wrote the water that comes out of our taps, medicines us that that wood that builds houses and furniture, all originate in forests.
Forests produce fresh air that we breathe and are habitats of endangered species.
We also provide opportunities, recreational increasingly important in our complex world.
Approximately 1.5 billion poor people living in rural areas of the world depend on forests for basic needs as food and firewood.
However, deforestation is continuing.
Every year we lose 14.6 million hectares (145,000 square kms.) forests, an area almost four times the size of Switzerland.
The forestry management irresponsible, accentuated by the poor regulation and application of the laws by governments, and the markets that premian illegal logging are conspirando to put an end to forests most valuable and threatened in the world.
Once the forests are beginning to disappear, generally there is a whole worse environmental, social and economic which affect all of us somewhat.
The island of Sumatra, Indonesia, is a good example.
Companies producing pulp role and are doing a rampant destruction and illegal forest containing the most rich diversity of plants in the world.
It is likely that the road plants disappear still to discover, as well as endangered species such as the rhinoceros and the elephant Sumatra, and the orangután.
When forests Sumatra disappear communities, people, you will find a place little suited to live and without a decent way of earning a living.
What is more, the distortion of global markets caused by the trade in goods produced way of illegal produces disadvantages for companies which demonstrate social responsibility.
Developing countries are losing 15 billion dollars a year tax revenue due to illegal logging.
To make matters worse, the demand for wood for reconstruction following the tsunami last year is intensifying the already unsustainable demand that exists on forests Sumatra.
Similar threats to forests are obvious in the Amazon and in the Congo Basin.
The recent Ecosystem Assessment for the Millennium EEM () UN shows that forests in these and other regions of critical importance are in decline frank due to bad management, and who will continue to disappearing unless action is taken serious.
The information distributed by the government of Brazil indicates that deforestation of forests irreplaceable the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion to agricultural land, came to the 2.6 million hectares (approximately 26,000 square kms.) last year, taking the area deforestada total Amazon to 17%.
But the battle against deforestation is not lost.
Various organisations, ambientalistas and businesses concerned the state of the forests of the world are joining forces to reverse the reforestation and improve the management of forests.
For example, the world nature Fund (WWF) and the World Bank have helped the government of Brazil to start an initiative which created more than 17 million hectares (179,000 square kms.) new areas of protected forest, such as national parks.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer in perpetuity these areas protected.
Similarly, a summit meeting between the governments of the countries of the Congo Basin resulted in an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible management of forests.
In turn, this was an initiative of USD 53 million from the Department of State US to promote forestry conservation of Congo.
Since leaders meet for the first time in 1999, 3.5 million hectares (more than 33,700 square kms.) new protected areas have been created in the Congo Basin.
However, given the effects of the Asian tsunami in December, the weight of the evidence provided by the EEM and statistics on deforestation regions in on in key importance, our efforts must continue.
The World Bank and the WWF recently undertook to unite in an effort to help reduce the rate deforestation of 10% by the year 2010, and work with other institutions of the public and private sectors for the achievement of ambitious objectives of forestry conservation.
Studies by the WWF show that if the forests of the world fall into a combination of customs and types (which includes areas protected forests, commercial handled responsibly landscapes and and) and we can respond to the needs global forest products, while maintaining significant resources environmental and social for the foreseeable future.
The leaders of business, governments and civil society organisations must play its part in implementing this vision.
Are fanatics the Saudis?
The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have made many not just reconsideration of the prospects for survival of the ruling house of the Sauds, but to ask themselves whether the kingdom is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.
In some way, it appears that the Saudi society has been a torrent of fanaticism violent based on the religious orthodoxy extreme.
The fact that 15 of the 19 kidnappers of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States were Saudi a vision has been finalized longstanding considers that the kingdom as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance.
In some respects, this perception is correct, but it cannot be applied to the public Saudi general.
On the contrary, it would be a serious mistake to think that Islam fanatical defines completely attitudes Saudi towards religion.
Between 2001 and 2003, I was part of a team made a comprehensive study of values in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iran and Jordan.
Our results offer image a a one of the Saudi attitudes.
In comparison with those polled in other countries in the Middle East, the Saudis were generally less religious and attitudes towards democracy and the forced marriages also indicate a moderate ordinary behind it.
It is clear that in the four countries religions is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of those questioned says believe in God, in life after death, and heaven and hell.
But the Saudi people appear to be less religious that their fellow Muslim faith.
The sixty-two per cent of the Saudis are described as religious, compared with 82% of the Iranians, 85% of the Jordanians and 98% of the Egyptians.
The Americans also seem to be much more religious that the Saudis, with 81% of them describiéndose as such.
Part of this variation can be explained by the differences between nations in terms of what it means to be religious.
For example, the Americans can define religions differently to the people of the Middle East, with perhaps less accession to religious beliefs than is customary in Islamic countries.
This might also explain some of the differences between the Muslim countries.
But the gap between what the Saudi defined as perception, on the one hand, and the definition of the Iranians, Jordanian and Egyptians, on the other hand, is so great that calls into question the predominant perception that Saudi Arabia is a highly society religion and conservative.
In fact, actions speak more than words: only 28% of the Saudis said participate in services religious weekly, compared with 27% of the Iranians, 44% of the Jordanians, 42% of the Egyptians and 45% of the Americans.
These results, although go in the opposite direction to the popular perceptions about the Saudi culture, are less surprising what appear to be.
For a long sociologists of religion have argued that, in an atmosphere religious monolithic or when religious institutions are closely linked to the state it is declining, the general perception of the public.
It makes sense to think that when national authorities are compulsory strict codes of conduct, people tend to rebel and away from religious institutions punished officially.
Therefore, it is not surprising that the Egyptians and Jordanian, who live in countries where the state does not oblige exercise the pity, more religious that the Iranian or Saudi, who face a policy local "virtuous" supported by the state.
Even on the issue of marriage many Saudi expressed visions surprisingly liberals.
The polled is divided almost split equal in the question on the forced marriages, with around half support the idea that marriage must be based on the consent of the parents, while 48% preferred to love as the basis of marriage.
Given the established by gender segregation and the dominance of fathers, this result seems reveal a strong desire for greater freedom option of what has traditionally been a decision taken by the family.
Finally, the Saudis prove to be enthusiastic supporters of democracy, again contradicting the popular image of conservatism Saudi.
The Saudi surveyed, 58% considered to democracy as the best form of government, 23% were not in agreement, and 18% expressed no opinion.
The overwhelming support for democracy in a country which does not have a history secular and nationalist seems contrary to what might be sense.
In fact, support for democracy corresponds to a number of other liberal attitudes which are in Saudi Arabia.
The advocates of democracy tend to be less religious, more secular, more tolerant towards others, more critical of the performance of the public sector and to be more concerned about the cultural invasion West.
Beyond the data of the study, history has shown that the liberal ideas are most popular when a despotic monarch governs the people in alliance with a "establishment" religious.
At the end of the nineteenth century arose in the Ottoman Syria an incredible amount liberal, in response to religious despotism of Sultan Abdulhamid.
At the same time, appeared in Iran age-old movement and a a favour of constitutionalism, a reaction to the absolutista alliance between the Shahs Quajar and institucionalidad religion.
In view of the similarities between these historical precedent and conditions existing in Saudi Arabia, we should not rule out the possibility of a reform.
Now the data studies also suggest that it would not be surprising to see the Saudis demanding a policy more transparent and a religion interferes less.
The Museum European
At the end of the nineteenth century, Europe was to Asia basically as a source of inspiration for their artists or a source of imperial ambition.
The Asian, for its part, saw Europe as a model of modernity, as in Japan, Meiji or a barometer of decline, as in China.
A century later, the economic miracle Japanese had changed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europe in a place of rapid technological progress and industrial.
Now, in the early years of the 21st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and Asia in Europe is changing dramatically, at a time when the economies of Asia are booming while the European Union is atollada in an identity crisis and confidence.
Several Asian prominent, such as the former leader of Singapore Lee Kuan Yew today, to Europeans that if they carry on with its present course, Europe will be quickly irrelevant to everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
A prominent employer Chinese dividing their time between Hong Kong and London was even more specific.
In a private meeting of senior employers leaders and politicians in Paris some weeks ago, said: "you Europeans are becoming a third world country, spend time to discuss issues wrong -- the constitution, the state benefactor, the pensions crisis -- and systematically, offer the wrong answers to the questions posed by" .
The visions that Europeans have of Asia in general, and China in particular, are more complex and ranging from the lucid adaptation to a new competitor and respected and purely ideological rejection.
In may 1968, in France, students -- or some of them, at least -- who took to the streets to invent a new world dreamt with the Maoist China, China in the middle of the Cultural Revolution brutal and pointless.
Its obsession absurd and ornate was the product of ignorance of the crimes of Mao as the result of boredom in a prosperous society where unemployment hardly existed.
Today, however, their heirs openly criticise the capitalist model Asia.
Yesterday, China was North a a a revolutionary the utopian; today it has become a némesis ultraliberal for a new generation reactionary of defenders of the status quo in Europe.
Students who demonstrated in the streets of Paris recently do not want to be as the Chinese and the Indians; reject the logic of globalisation and refuse to renounce social guarantees both that that that.
The elites European economic receive China and India in a different way.
Today are fully aware that vision its its its nostalgic for these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
China and India became genuine competitors who deserve respect, if not simple admiration.
The quality, the costs and the delivery times in the car industry, for example, are reaching the European level.
Europe retains an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but companies world class emerging, particularly in India, each time are in a better position to recruit egresados of MIT and Harvard, while at the same time keeping the costs of labour low, and therefore the global competitiveness.
Unfortunately, although the European leaders recognise the Asian challenge not, as a test of reality in the irresistible process of globalisation and also as a so-called weapons in social and economic terms.
To tell the truth, it would be fair to say that European politicians, with some exceptions, as Tony Blair, very quick to adjust their visions of the world in accordance with the Revolutionary pace of change in Asia.
Caught between a lack of strategic vision in the long term and its obsession with the short-term interests, the political leaders of Europe largely failed to win the respect for their peers Asian, unlike the European airlines to them is much better to the Asian eyes.
Of course, in a continent that practically could not bury its past and to close the door to the ghosts nationalists, the European Union is often perceived by the Asian as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.
But if the performance of Europe even declining, is sobreviviría this perception?
Perhaps the Asian would be to consider the European model as a policy version of Venice -- a place to visit with nostalgia for his former glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
The soft and the blue
The change of Condoleezza Rice by Colin Powell on the Secretary of State of State of the EU shows that the recent presidential election in that country still has serious implications.
But understand what tells us the choice on the United States is important not only for the Americans, but also to the world.
The presidential vote this year is proof that the US democracy is in good health, but that some things could improve.
Contrary to what happened in the 2000 elections, when President Bush lost the vote popular and barely won the vote in the College election, this time triumphed by 3,5 million votes.
Although some democrats are bitter, cannot be seriously question the legitimacy of the victory of Bush.
The United States are very divided states in in Republicans) and blue states (Democrats).
If 100.000 votes had been different in the state red Ohio, John Kerry would be the chairman (albeit with popular vote minority).
The College election was included in the Constitution of the United States to protect the small states in a federal system, but now means that the political campaigns focus mainly on a dozen states where public opinion is very divided.
At a level more fundamental, choose chairmen without a democratic majority has something of unseemly.
It is therefore time to hold a serious debate to amend the constitution in order to abolish the College election.
Some observers also complain rhetoric and divisive propaganda which typified the campaign.
But this must be seen from a historical perspective.
At the time of the founding fathers, the newspapers were extremely partial and George Washington I consternaba the harshness of language policy.
During much of its early years -- not to speak of the civil war and reconstruction — the country was so divided as now and I enconado rhetoric campaign reflected the closed of competition.
At the same time, despite the propaganda on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a format serious and had a large audience.
In general, it is likely that a president with a growing economy is reelecto.
In this respect, the striking in the case of Bush was so low that it was your majority.
In large part this is due to the unpopularity of the war in Iraq.
Kerry tried to make war, the low rate of job creation, inadequate attention to health and the reduction of tax Bush groups high income the central themes of your campaign, but some observers felt that this was never a clear message.
Bush retorted with concerns about security against terrorism and the cultural populism on issues such as the homosexual marriage and the right to abortion.
In the end, safety and populism cultural overcame the economic populism.
The interpretation of the choice has been influenced by the exit polls in which they asked the voters (after having voted) what issues had been importing them more.
The majority (22%) replied that the "moral values" , compared with 20% referred to the economy and the 19% mentioned terrorism.
Conservatives social interpret this as it was they who won the election for Bush and its agenda must prevail in the next period of the President.
But a survey by Pew lifted a week after the election indicated that the category "moral values" covered a wide range of issues as well as the right to abortion and homosexual marriage.
In fact, surveys show that 25% of the population supports the homosexual marriage and 35% are in favour civil of unions of gay couples (the position advocating Kerry).
However, for the 37% which opposes these marriages, especially in the Red centre of the country, the issue helped to mobilise the supporters of Bush to go out and vote.
A most important question is whether the EU are hopelessly divided.
The map election soft and blue has led to jokes cartoons and on the Internet on the secession of the two coasts blue centre of the country.
Some would call "Costopía" .
But the division is not very clear.
Many states on both sides is won by margins poor, and if we colorea the map at the level of counties and not of states, a large part of the country is quite morado.
Cities face suburbs and rural areas is a better description coasts against centre.
In fact, opinion polls show that the majority of Americans are concentrated in the moderate centre of the political spectrum and not in the two extremes.
But the political elites, as militants of parties and members of Congress, tend to be more extreme that the public.
The principle that seems disconcerting, because should have incentives to move to the centre rich in votes.
But many members of Congress represent districts which are safe for their parties and the threat to your re-election is in the primary, dominated by the wings more activists and extremist parties.
This trend is strengthened by the growth of cable television, which attracts viewers programmes by through through infotenimiento "and" Internet bloggers that negotiation fierce controversy without any editorial filter.
A reform to change the borders of the constituencies in order to make them more competitive would help to alleviate the problem, but a few of the Congressmen in office would vote for modifications which could increase the risk of defeat.
The closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate for change less than he seems to believe.
Given the difficult problems of foreign policy, fiscal and social facing, would do well to voltear towards the centre instead of reconciling its conservative basis, but it is not clear whether will apply the policy of convictions or the pragmatism.
How wriggle out of the habit of oil
The Chancellor, Angela Merkel turned the treatment of climate change in a high priority on the agenda of Germany for the presidencies of the EU and G8, starting in January.
I have here a specific proposal, sufficiently general for world leaders think and accepted, and sufficiently clear to other governments and companies would understand: nothing more than a date at the next G8 summit, on which races being fed on oil can no longer move more in the main industrialised countries.
A decision of this nature would have an economic impact and geopolitical highly positive.
The real cause of today's concerns energy is not the fall of the global reserves of oil, but rather that the production of oil internal large consumers -- Europe, the United States and China -- will lapse at the very moment when the growing demand Asian sature the market.
The available reserves will be concentrated increasingly in the Middle East, simply because the supply in the rest of the regions will run out earlier.
What is more, the main exporters of oil are not prepared to subordinate their investment policies to the requirements of the market.
Saudi Arabia is trying to handle its oil production independently, while Iran frightens potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and corruption.
Iraq is suffering from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia are impediments at every turn.
These four countries have half the oil reserves tested in the world and two-thirds of what potentially could be exported.
All of this not production costs, is the central right of high oil prices and fights to conclude contracts tankers in Central Asia and Africa.
To believe that high oil prices are good use because the environment is ignoring some basic facts of international politics.
Firstly, in many of the African and Asian countries poorer oil imports represent a slice significantly higher national expenditure that in industrialised countries, which means that economic growth and social development are in danger, at the same time facing new crisis debt.
The incomes of oil production hamper reforms in the major exporting countries.
Thanks to your strength lubricada financial regimes such as those in Venezuela and Iran ever feel less restricted by international rules.
The newcomers to the universe of nations consumers, as in the case of China, copy the old habits of the West industrialised, with its long history of overlook human rights abuses in order to ensure lucrative agreements with authoritarian regimes and rich in oil.
The only heavyweights political and economic of the world, the main industrialised countries which are still, by far the largest consumers of hydrocarbons, can initiate a change at global level.
The change must begin in the transport sector, which represents more than half of the present consumption of oil -- a proportion likely to increase in the future.
Therefore, the G8 countries should agree to prevent circulate all car fed to oil from 2025 onwards.
This decision would suggest not against individual mobility, but against the disipación a scarce resource that is more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials.
Political leaders should not give priority no technology in particular.
What is more, should give to the motor vehicle industry incentives to develop alternative technologies which are based on fuel biomass, hydrogen and even natural gas for a transitional period.
The countries leaders from a political point of view give them industries internal as a collateral benefit, a leading position in the field of energy technology, ensuring future markets.
If the expected significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions could bring hand in hand with the turning point needed in international policies on climate.
But also comes into play economic development: cure our addiction "oil" would you more oil to the poorest countries, least-developed and industrialised recently, at the same time as forzaría the fall in prices and relieve competition geopolitical for energy.
From a geopolitical point of view, the benefits would be equally obvious, as it would reduce markedly capacity of the major oil exporters of blackmail the industrialised countries.
This could increase the power of negotiation of the international community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia seriously that that the political and economic reform since out.
As a country technologically advanced and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is in a position to put forward an initiative of this nature.
Merkel, which has a doctorate in physical and started their political career still Minister for the environment (chairing in 1995 the first Conference of the United Nations framework Convention on Climate Change), may have more credibility in dealing with this issue than any of their EU colleagues and the G8.
Came when shows a courageous leadership.
The Myth of trade and aid
Trade and aid have become words fashionable at international level.
Greater assistance (including the cancellation of debt) and greater access to the markets of rich countries for products from poor countries seem to be at the top of the agenda overall.
In fact, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and what so quickly.
In all this are clear the lessons of the past five decades of economic development.
Among the most important points out that economic development is largely in the hands of poor nations themselves.
The countries that have been successful in the recent past have obtained through their own efforts.
Aid and access to the market rarely have played a critical role.
Let us consider a country which has free access and preferential to the markets of its large neighbour, which is also the most powerful economy in the world.
Let us suppose moreover that country can send millions of its citizens to work on the other side of the border, which receives a huge volume of investment and is completely integrated into the production chains International.
Furthermore, the banking system of the country supports the willingness shown by its neighbour rich to serve as a lender of last resort.
Globalisation is very good, true?
Now we consider a second country.
This is facing a trade embargo in the largest market in the world, does not receive foreign assistance or any kind of assistance from the West, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and is being prevented from borrowing of the IMF and the World Bank.
If these disadvantages external were not enough, debilitadoras this economy also retains its own high obstacles to international trade (such as trade of state, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions.)
As the reader will have guessed, these are countries of Mexico and Vietnam.
Mexico shares a border of 3.000 kilometres with the United States, which means that there is not only privileged access to the labour markets and goods, but also the facility to use the Treasury funds of the EU (as was demonstrated in the crisis of the weight of 1995).
In contrast, the United States held a trade embargo against Vietnam until 1994, established diplomatic relations until 1995 and for years after that gave no treatment of most-favoured nation to imports of that country.
Vietnam is outside the WTO.
Now we consider its economic performance.
Since signed it will be in December 1992, the economy of Mexico has grown at an average rate of only 1% per year in per capita terms.
This is not only well below the level of the superstars economic Asia; it is also a fraction of the growth of Mexico over the decades antecedieron that the debt crisis of 1982 (3,6% per year between 1960 and 1981).
However, Vietnam grew at a rate of 5,6% per year per capita between the start of its economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the EU in 1995, and since then has been growing at a fast pace of 4,5%.
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction in poverty, whereas in Mexico real wages fell.
Both countries experienced marked increases in international trade and foreign investment, but the situation is completely different in what matters most: raising living standards, especially those of the poor.
What these examples show is that internal efforts succeed on anything to determine the economic fortunes of a country.
All the opportunities that the market of the EU gave Mexico were unable to counteract the consequences of the errors of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the real appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend the rest of the economy improvements in productivity won over a limited range of export activities.
What matters most is whether a country takes the growth strategy correct.
Without any of the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam applied a strategy concentrated in diversify its economy and improve the productive capacity of their internal suppliers.
The experiences wider post-war support the conclusion that internal policies are the most important thing.
South Korea left at the beginning of the 1990s, not when external aid was at its peak, but when it was withdrawing gradually.
Taiwan was not external aid or preferential access to markets.
China and India, the two superstars economic today, have been thriving largely efforts by sui generis reform.
It is tempting to attribute the rare African successes -- Botswana and Mauritius -- to external demand for their exports (diamonds and clothed respectively), but that is only part of the story.
Of course both countries would be considerably poorest without access to foreign markets.
But, as in other cases development of what the distinguishes are not the external benefits which possess, but its ability to exploit them.
See what other countries have done with their natural resources.
The word "diamond" hardly evokes images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.
Similarly, few areas processing exports which are proliferating in the world have achieved the results that have come to light in Mauritius.
None of this absuelve rich countries its responsibility to help.
Can do that the world is less cosy for the corrupt dictators -- for example, sharing information more financial and not recognising international contracts to sign.
Also, increase the number of workers from poor countries who are allowed to work in rich countries and give greater scope for policies aimed at growth through the relaxation of the rules of the WTO and the conditions of the EU would have a greater impact of long-term development.
It is not clear that extend access to markets and increase aid constitute the use more productive capital political valuable in the north.
The development should focus not on trade and aid but on improving the environment policy in poor countries.
Now what who is dependent?
If the great economist Argentine Raul Prebisch lived currently certainly ask themselves if the world is the other way round.
His theory of the "dependency" , which took a great deal of influence, argued that if the poor countries dependent on too export products of the depth will industrial needed to sustain an accelerated growth.
It empantanarían, however, in a cycle prices of raw materials at global level and a less and less involvement of income.
The answer policy of Prebisch, protectionism, was disastrous for the many Latin American countries and African it was case.
But the fact is that for many years, Prebisch seemed to have predicted rightly trends long-term prices primary products.
The ruthless progress in agriculture and extracting resources they put pressure on the low prices of raw materials, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s.
With few exceptions, the countries that concentrated on the export of these products desempeños had very poor, while many Asian countries with few resources are overtaken.
Today, however, as the Asian giants, India and China, joining the global economy, oil prices, the gold, the wheat and almost all the other raw materials are increasing so explosive.
Although there will always be cycles -- for example, oil prices will fall probably before again begin to rise -- the trend long-term many primary products will be clearly upwards for some time.
What many negotiators trade and other person responsible design policies do not seem to be acknowledged, although still Prebisch would have realised immediately, is that these dramatic events have major implications for the overall balance of power.
In fact, perhaps no another aspect of economic globalisation will raise major challenges to the global leaders in the coming decades.
There are many questions.
Are you prepared the rich countries today to an era of codependencia in which they both need raw materials as developing countries need imports industrial and technology?
Are you prepared to the inevitable flow of power and influence towards the raw materials producers as they are made much richer?
How will the two superpowers in the world, China and the United States, to the fact that there are regions exporting products of in Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia which are full of nation states poorly trained?
Prophets some some some the problem as one of natural resources finite in which the world is falling raw materials without criticism at an alarming rate.
Today, many support the theory of "peak Hubbert" on the oil production, which maintains that we have reached the limits of the production capacity, the wells are drying up and everything will worsen from now on.
However, as mentioned the important historian oil, give Yergin, the prophets of unfortunately have already declared at least four times that the world is running short of oil.
Each time, the threat is due to evaporó dramatic improvements in technology.
At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil dragar involved with mulas.
No one is surprised about the drilling bore-holes for 3.000 metres under the seabed.
There have been improvements similar in all sectors of mining metal and agriculture.
No, the world is not about to stay without raw materials.
What happens, however, is that the integration of 2,5 billion people (no more China and India) to the global economy is producing a change in the demand that security in with more upwards pressure on prices of raw materials that any technological advance can offset.
So, at least during the next 50 to 75 years, and perhaps until the start human mining operations on Mars sometime over the centuries to come, the price of many natural resources rising.
What will be destabilised world politics by the rebalancing of economic power global arising from this?
The First World War, of course, exploded in part by the German concern that the other colonial powers had an extremely high proportion of the world supplies of oil and raw materials.
Similarly, in the second world war Japan feared for the stability of its foreign slaughter of oil and other natural resources.
How will arise similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources (and where even the shortage of water is a probema) and the West?
Fortunately, this does not seem likely at the moment, especially given the sober approach and pragmatic of the Chinese leaders in terms of its problems of resources.
The Chinese are looking to regions such as Africa in the hope of finding trading partners stable.
Do not share the proselytism political the Americans, who not only want to trade with exporters of raw materials but also turning.
Then there are the American leaders who speak to the United States is self-sufficient in its energy slaughter.
But that is in essence a joke: complacent them, perhaps, but self-sufficient, never.
It is understandable that much of the Arab world considers the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the real US strategy to ensure a stable supply of energy.
If they are correct, we can only hope that the United States has a plan B.
Meanwhile, the prices of raw materials will rising and currently exporters of oil are the most responsible for the huge trade deficit of the United States.
Perhaps the American strategy today is to take deberle both countries exporters of raw materials that they have to rely on that the United States is happy.
That is something that Prebisch would never have anticipated.
The option of hard line of Iran
It is likely that the choice of the mayor of hard line in Teheran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next President of Iran worsening relations with the West and the international isolation of the country.
However, in domestic terms, it is likely that the Islamic regime would be better than if there had been a result more moderate.
It is clear that Ahmadinejad is the basis of real support.
But that has been presented as a populist, that you have spoken to help the poor, who has condemned the functioning of the government and has acted almost as a candidate opposition is irrelevant: it was the elected the regime and eventually received official aid even against other candidates hard-line.
The regime played your letters brilliantly.
It turned Hashemi Rafsanjani, slightly more pragmatic and that I did not agree with certain current policies, in the form of "system" and your own man in the rebel.
Thus, the government used feelings against the system to revitalise his command.
The fact that the last President Khatami Muhammad, support the reformist movement -- although way of eventually achieved nothing -- simply underlines the so absolute that governments voltearon the political situation.
Ahmadinejad is a representative of activists younger revolution against the Sha of a quarter of a century ago.
It was directly involved in the capture of hostages Americans in Iran, but to what extent is something matter open to discussion.
The most worrying of all is that it is close to the two main groups representing the most extreme elements of Iran: the body of the Revolutionary Guards Islamic and the organisation Basij.
The first is a parallel army in favour of the regime; the second is an organisation that intimidation opponents and those seeking a more open society.
However, the concerns that leadership even more radical has taken the lead in Iran mitigate by two factors.
Firstly, it is likely that Ahmadinejad concentrates on internal affairs, to try and with -- it is not clear what degree of success -- improving the living standards of the Iranian poorer.
Secondly, the same group which took control since the revolution will continue working on the policy ideological and outside.
The President has fewer powers than it appears, in particular overshadowed by the Supreme guide, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
However, the choice of Ahmadinejad abundantly clarifies the challenge that Iran poses to the Western policy and the stability of the Middle East.
Firstly, sends a � it to the most extreme elements of Iran and customers of terrorist terrorist terrorist Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Palestine and various groups peque � you operating against Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other Arab countries -- that they have the green light to launch attacks.
It is likely that mean that Iran will support any thing to do.
To the outside Iran has often been relatively cautious, but covert level has been the sponsor's most important terrorism at world level.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acted on its own to organise and coordinate specific operations, now feel that they have more freedom to do so.
Furthermore, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
Most of the Iranian political -- at least those that the government allowed to operate openly -- support the programme, but they are in favour of an approach more discreet and cautious.
Rafsanjani, for example, preferred to build better economic relations with the West to make progress on the nuclear front.
If Ahmadinejad is chairman of a nuclear Iran is more likely to use weapons way of
This does not mean that the detonaría but rather that the purposes would use blackmail of taking of threats at the level of crisis.
Since the Iraqi leaders proclaim daily its desire to wipe Israel off the map and combat the EU (Ahmadinejad pisoteó a photograph of the American flag when addressing vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.
Finally, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will be more determined to subvert the stability of Iraq and its victory will encourage officials extremist and radical Iranian who are in that country.
Iran is already sending many players to Iraq and supporting customers who want to turn it into a clone.
The Iraqi people, including the Shia Muslims -- who practise the same version of Islam that the Iranians -- generally reject this interference.
It is likely that a position more militant Iran increase the friction with Iraq and generate more violence anti-American.
In short, the election result of Iran is dangerous, although as what is destabilising will depend on the actions of Ahmadinejad and the extent to which Khamenei will take.
Furthermore, dealing with a Iran so openly extremist -- even for radical patterns hard line of the regime -- will be a challenge not only for the EU but also for Europe.
� try European countries pretend that rhetoric and militant's provocations Ahmadinejad do not matter and that we can find a diplomatic solution to Iran's nuclear ambitions?
With Rafsanjani would have been easy to maintain a genuine agreement or a farce of cooperation.
But with Ahmadinejad will require a high level of appeasement so that even the slightest diplomatic process can continue.
Some reformers and Iranian exiles are pleased that the choice of Ahmadinejad, because allege that its administration will see the real face of the regime and will erase the Western hopes to reach an agreement.
Also, however, may represent the success of the regime in cooptar dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.
Whatever the outcome, for the triumph of Ahmadinejad means that anything to do with Iran must be claentar further.
Taking from the poor to the rich
President Bush seems determined to ruin the US budget for the coming years.
When President Bush took office, it was possible to envisage a future of budgetary surpluses virtually uninterrupted.
Today, through a combination of tax concessions driven by Republicans, an economy in slowdown, the desinfle of the bubble market of the of a massive increase in expenditure on defence, the horizon tax is dominated by enormous deficits.
Things are worse, since the Bush administration and Congress dominated by the Republicans are preparing a deepening of the tax chaos.
The damage that will probably to weaken US and instability will add to the global economy.
Traditionally, the Republican Party American preferred to balanced budgets.
This changed with the Reagan administration, when Republicans conservative added tax reductions, even at the expense of the emergence of large budget deficits.
The President Reagan he told the American people could benefit of tax concessions, an increase military and continuing their programmes expenditure of all at the same time.
It is not surprising that the result was a number of vast budget deficits which took years repair.
Both President George Bush senior as Bill Clinton had to raise taxes to correct the chaos of the Reagan era.
These tax rises probably contributed to the defeat of President Bush senior at the hands of Bill Clinton in 1992.
And yet Clinton decided, courageously, complete the process of restoring the balance fiscal, partly in order to protect the long-term funding of the programme retirement of social security.
When Clinton left office in 2000, the budgetary situation was better in decades.
Then came the President George Bush to Jr. once again play the role played Reagan: large sales tax, a huge increase in military expenditure and a continuation or even expansion of the popular spending programmes.
The result was a foregone conclusion.
In January 2001, it was originally conceived the result budgetary accumulated for the years 2002-2011 would have a surplus of $ 5,6 trillion dollars.
In the middle of 2002, these surpluses planned had been waning.
In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, could be hoped that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by the Republicans were cautious when it comes to proposing new tax reductions.
But no, its top priority is to apply new tax reductions which mainly benefit the rich.
At the same time, the administration is proposing large increases in military expenditure.
With the presidential election of November 2004 on the horizon, we can be sure that there will be no cuts important in spending programmes non-military.
So it seems that budget deficits mass came to stay.
If the internal expenditure simply remains constant as a fraction of the national accession, the result budgetary accumulated for the next ten years will be a deficit combined $ 1,5 trillion.
But it may be that this figure is optimistic, because probably not properly included the cost of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax concessions or risks of the highest rates of interest in the coming years.
Why Republicans are concerned so little this whole chaos?
Some Republicans care more lowering taxes of the rich almost anything else.
Others believe that deficits will be forced to make substantial cuts in expenditure internal government, thus reducing the size of the state, which is its dearest wish.
The problem with this point of view is that the majority of those who pay taxes love the internal programmes and not very easily will support the implementation of significant cuts in spending.
A question more worrying is why the Americans vote for such policies, when they should know that only will cause problems.
A response is that many voters do not see the imminent budgetary problems.
A better response is that the majority of Americans not actually voted for these policies.
The turnout at the elections of 2002 was only 40% of whom only half supported Republicans, or nearly 20% of the voters admissible.
Of course, the prospects cannot be that black.
We can prevent war in Iraq.
Tax reductions proposals can be reject or leave.
But I predict large budget deficits in the years to come and a growing sense of unease inside and outside US about its macroeconomic situation.
The foreign investors can decide stop funding the US budget deficits and current account in terms favourable.
The dollar can be weaken and can be intensified the concerns about inflation.
All this can make those policies designed US have confidence less and less flexible in its answers to the shocks "economic" .
It is likely that the poor, inside and outside US, suffer the worst part, when President Bush and the Congress told the American people and the world that, due to the large budget deficits, there is no money to deal with the problems of poverty, health and education.
Unless the Americans ordinary take awareness of these risks tax, the rich will be with another gift of billions of dollars, while the country and the world suffer the sad consequences for many years to come.
Lessons from the reckless tax United States
George W. Bush has done more to the ruin of the economic policy of US than any other Chairman of the US history, even going beyond its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
In just three years in power, has destroyed a fragile political consensus for construction which had been need a decade, and that could take another decade rebuild.
In so doing, Bush has put at risk social stability and the economic strength of long term from the United States.
Since the budgetary challenges long-term that the United States of America is running so bad way are not exclusive errors tax US provide important lessons for other countries.
The main problem with fiscal policy is that politicians can do popular temporarily to reduce taxes and increase public expenditure, causing a huge public debt and leaving its payment for the future.
This trick can take a few years, but sooner rather than later défitits the budget and the growing public debt will be forced to give painful steps backwards in this policy.
However, a cynical political can achieve your re-election and perhaps already be withdrawn when exploits the crisis.
You can imagine that, after hundreds of similar episodes of fiscal irresponsibility throughout the world in past decades, the voters would be allergic to tricks like these.
And yet Bush is doing again, buying popularity to distribute massive tax reductions, while at the same time increasing military spending and even increased expenditure on education and health.
The result is a budget deficit equivalent to more than 5% of PGB.
What is worse is that the financial perspectives long-term United States were already problematic before Bush began its irresponsible policies.
The US population is ageing, so that there will be a radical increase in the costs of public health and pension systems.
A careful calculation shows that it is likely that the future livelihood under policies favoured by Bush are inadequate in several dozen billion US dollars to finance the costs of state pensions, health care and other expenses tax expected by the public.
At some point in the future we will have thus radically increase the collection of taxes, drastically reduce public spending, or both, to correct the actions of Bush.
Why, then, the public supports these policies?
Because he believes or is concerned about these consequences little long-term, even if finally end up damaging the majority of the Americans.
For granted, taxpayers richest are happy because received the bulk of the tax reductions.
Incredibly, the richest 5% of taxpayers American received almost half of tax reductions and clearly, these rich taxpayers expect the other 95% (the middle class and the poor) bear most of the cuts in spending and increases in taxes to be applied in the future.
Meanwhile, Bush has convinced many voters poor and middle class which must be happy, without also tell you that will have to pay their small rebates tax cuts with much greater in the future government services, if policies of its administration persist in the long term.
If the Americans were political memory, understand that were already in this mountain ' tax once in the past 20 years.
Ronald Reagan also came to power promising large reductions in taxation substantial increases in military expenditure.
The result was a huge budget deficit in the middle of 80.
The tax reductions made extremely popular Reagan and helped win the re-election in 1984.
It took more than a decade (starting with the second period of Reagan, and following in periods of George Bush senior and Bill Clinton) in order to be able to return to a budget surplus.
Of course, this meant to adopt new tax increases, which will cost the re-election George Bush Senior and led to the polarised political atmosphere of 90.
It is almost certain that history will be repeated.
Some right-wing ideologists of the Bush administration believe that deficits current tax finally lead to drastically reduce social spending of the government.
Expect programmes such as dismantle social security and Medicare.
But the American public strongly supports these social programmes.
So the right-wing strategy to reduce taxes first to force to make cuts in social programmes after will not work, and sooner or later it will be necessary to increase taxes.
Others in the Bush Administration argue that the tax reductions are important to get the US recession.
This argument is also wrong.
The US economy could have been recovered without the tax reductions, and perhaps become even stronger.
In any case, it is a great mistake to base the tax policies of long term in the trade cycle in the short term.
There are two vital lessons for other countries.
The first is that the increasing budget deficits US sooner or later restrict the international power of the United States.
The Americans supported the war in Iraq only because they had to pay for it with an increase in taxes.
When they are put at the crossroads of choosing between adventures abroad and higher taxes, is much less likely to support expensive military operations abroad.
In fact, the USA is deeply divided when the public should face chaos tax left by Bush.
The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking account of the increase in the tax costs of an ageing population.
The budgetary conditions long-term rarely are related to the taxpayers or parliament.
We should call on governments to submit budgetary assessments long-term together with its proposals annual budget, in order to reduce the trend towards political manipulation short-term in the budget.
US can serve as early warning for other countries.
The White House should give others the same warning that the magicians give viewers: "do not try to this in their homes." 
The policy in the stock market
Many analysts economic and financial complain that the governments of the emerging countries often manipulated too markets their their their that they are more political economic.
The course tacit it seems that, on the contrary, force any any some nature economic addressed the securities markets in the advanced countries, and that, therefore, to predict its performance is as predict the growth of the trees.
This description of markets the the the emerging countries is not wrong, but only partial, because it also applies to the markets of the developed countries.
In fact, the best analysts know that predict the performance of the stock market of any country is in large measure predict how the government wants to prosper investors in the political environment of the moment.
We see the market accionario of the United States, the largest in the world by far.
The general perception is that the government left in peace companies and that the dividends resulting from investing in market the the forces the fundamental a capitalist economy robust.
This is one of the reasons why the EU is a magnet for investors throughout the world.
But the dividends who do so attractive to markets the the EU the reflect a delicate political balance.
In particular, tax rates which affect the actions have changed in time as changing the political pressure.
For example, during the Second World War, political support for the large fortunes fell and the government has increased considerably taxes to the profits of big business, dividends and the high income in general.
When the second World war was a solid recovery of the Great Depression of the Thirty, President Roosevelt and congress added a tax on the ill-gotten gains to ensure that shareholders not benefited too.
In contrast, in 1980, when there was no war but market the the weak, the voters US elected to Ronald Reagan, a man to which many people considered too right-wing to be president.
The asked -- and to obtuvo-recortes tax on the profits of big business, dividends and membership.
The political interference in the securities market is not limited to tax on the profits of big business, dividends and membership.
Taxes on ownership, consumption, imports and sales -- all of which the authorities pay directly or indirectamente-pueden have an extended impact on the corporate profits and therefore on the market accionario.
It is no coincidence that wherever flourish the stock markets, governments have care that taxes do not destroy the profits corporate net.
In fact, the policy on markets the the the ends with taxation.
On the contrary, almost any activity of the government has an impact on the corporate profits, and in turn on the securities market.
After the collapse market of the 1929, the government of the EU suspended activities of monopolies, to enable companies to obtain power a a a raised its value.
This policy delayed the recovery of huge unemployment, but even this was able to monitor the political forces prepared in favour of supporting the securities market.
Similarly, one of the most important things that was President Reagan was destroyed much of the power it has left the US trade unions, which are competing for its share of the corporate profits.
The defeat that Reagan inflicted on strike of air traffic controllers in 1981 was a parteaguas for the trade union movement American -- and for the securities market, which started its dramatic upward trend in 1982.
The government of the EU has been particularly aggressive in supporting the securities market from the climax of the bubble prices of actions in 2000, particularly by cutting interest rates on repeated occasions.
Of course, such a policy is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not to support the market accionario.
But the percibiera that one of the key factors that pesaban on the economy was the price downwards actions is an eloquent shows the importance market of the of the EU.
In fact, the response from the authorities not only the monetary incentives.
National accounts for membership and product of the EU show that the actual rate of tax on the profits corporate (the percentage of the profits which in fact are paid the government road taxes) came to a ceiling of 33,7% in the first quarter of 2000, the height of the stock market and the economy in general-y fell to 20,2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market was under.
Much of this decline reflects the measures explicit support of approved the Congress, as well as the perception among corporations in the economic environment and current political may be more aggressive in tax evasion.
Moreover, after the collapse of the stock market, the maximum tax on the dividends of actions was reduced from 35% to 15%, which gave an advantage substantial investors in the long term and reinforced the effect composed of reinvest dividends net.
Again, this reduction tax is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, which, of course, we can say almost any measure directed at supporting the securities market.
But what determines that credible justification is the balance of the political forces.
It could be said that, over the past 200 years, the same variables, including the hostility towards high taxes and a trade union movement weak, have operated in the EU -- and therefore hopefully continue to operate in the future, producing high dividends in market the the attracting the enormous flow of foreign investment.
Those who think that investments in the market values of the EU to maintain a strong growth trend for decades may well be right.
But we must be aware of what is already predicting.
Essentially, not only are making predictions on the economy, but also on policies -- and perhaps most values the the shape to the strategies and the economic performance.
Housing global
Housing is investments more local embedded in a particular place as a tree, and thus growing or marchitándose in response to the local economic conditions.
Everyone is as a flash on our television screens, but the market our homes, made up almost in its entirety by local amateur, is planted there, in our own back yard.
Soon, however, all this could change.
In a month's time, the stock exchange commercial Chicago (WEC), in collaboration with my company, MacroMarkets, and also with Fiserv and Standard &'s poor, will undertake contracts and future options on prices building in ten cities of the United States.
Contracts will recall on the price indices property of s P &/Case-Shiller, which was generated from the academic work that my colleague Karl married and I started almost twenty years ago.
For many years, we have been campaigning for the future on housing, but, so far, no bag wanted to use this type of indicators in order to create a market of the future.
Markets on future house prices will allow them to investors throughout the world invest indirectly in property in the United States, interests in buying them through these markets.
A investor in Paris, Rio de Janeiro or Tokyo can invest in homes occupied by their owners in New York, the Los Angeles and about flood plains.
A fundamental principle of theory the "the diversification" or "sharing risk" -- suggests that the interest in new contracts will be high.
Individuals and businesses in new York, for example, are sobreexpuestos their risks building local, so that should reduce the risk of future sold on prices of housing in New York.
People in Tokyo will assume part of this risk buying future on prices of housing in New York if the price is appropriate.
The neoyorquinos will continue to live in their own homes, but now have distributed the risk of investment at world level.
There has been a market of future genuine houses on about on 1991, when the stock exchange of future options and London (which today is part of Euronext.liffe) failed in its attempt to launch a similar market in Great Britain.
This attempt never created much volume of transactions.
The stock exchange organised a holiday and not nobody wine.
The markets British investment in margins spread-betting (), and some retail markets on-line, never represented much either.
Will it be different this time?
Without doubt, to launch a new market is always a proposal uncertain: people want to go holidays only if there is a lot of people; if there is nobody, does not want to go.
In the same way, in the markets without many investors, cannot be implemented sufficient operations as to generate refunds necessary that the attract.
As usually happens with the broad holidays, may be a mystery tear them down how the new markets substantial, but we know that, from time to time, happens.
The initial indicators suggest a growing interest in operations with future on prices of housing, mainly because the fact that there is talk of both the "bubble" property underlines the importance of diversify the risk.
After the announcement of the WEC, one of its competitors, the Chicago board options exchange, said that has planned create contracts and future options in the main American regions, which will be based on the price property means published by the National Association agents of goods roots.
However, beyond the strong public interest in investing in housing and in resguardarse risks that this entails, must be solved another critical issue for the markets of future success: they must prove prices and investors must understand what is meant by these prices.
I believe that there are very good chance that many of these markets of future soon pronostiquen falling prices of some American cities in the coming year.
Will be in what operators call "backwardation" (market invested): the future price on the market today is lower than the current price of housing.
Perhaps this phenomenon does not occur on the first day marketed in the future on housing, but there are good chance of this happening in a matter of months.
Perhaps we need backwardation ' in some of these markets if we are to fulfil its role.
We know that there was a huge explosion buildings in many of these cities (and in other parts of the world) in recent years.
It is likely that international investors do not want to invest in these cities unless the expectations of a fall in prices are based on the markets of the future, as you know the people in Tokyo from their own experience harmful.
But if the phenomenon of "backwardation" is strong enough, to investors who think that the property market American goes way a fall even can expect a good return of the future on prices of housing, because they are already getting a lowest price on the market of the future.
However, it will take some adjustments to the neoyorquinos who want to protect their own property investments selling of future contracts which have a fall in prices incorporated.
They will have to get used to the idea that the market already expected the fall and that can only be protected by the margin of possible low prices of exceed this expectation.
To tell the truth, this type of adjustments in our way of thinking perhaps occurs when really see market prices of future.
Until now, the future course of prices of goods roots was simply a question of various opinions.
When markets create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we will be better prepared to control the risks facing these cities and thus to stabilize their economies -- and our own lives.
What news move markets?
The securities markets in large part of the world have been marked falls from cumulative approximately 10 may, in general, the low occurred over a period of two weeks until about 23 May, but prices falling followed on average since then.
Do the problems in the world stock markets mean problems for the global economy?
Let us look at the greatest falls.
The amount of the main countries, the most important collapse occurred in India, where share prices fell by 16.9% between 10 and 22 May.
The debacle on the other side of the globe was almost as important and the peaks and depths occurred a day or two after the India: in Argentina, share prices fell by 16.1%; in Brazil, 14.7%, and in Mexico, 13.8%.
European markets also suffered heavy losses.
In Sweden, share prices fell by 15.2% between 9 and 22 may; approximately the same period, prices fell by 9.7% in Germany, 9.4% in France and Great Britain and 9.3% in Italy.
In the same way, in Asia, share prices fell by 11.5% in Korea, 9.3% in Hong Kong and 8% in Japan, approximately the same period.
Many analysts try to link these facts with what has happened in the United States.
But there share prices fell barely 5.2% between 9 and 24 May.
China also seems to be behind the overall drop, because the price of actions there, in fact, increased during this period.
The explanation aware of economists hinges on monetary policy.
Immediately after the great fear of deflation 2003, central banks throughout the world fell its interest rates, which unleashed an outbreak speculative both in the stock market and in the building.
But now, according to this vision, interest rates rising are starting to feel, what presages future falls in prices assets.
This argument, in fact, has a greater share of truth.
The US federal reserve effectively increased charges on 10 May and its chairman, Bernanke Ben indicated, perhaps, had other subas charges in the future.
On 17 May revealed discouraging data on inflation in the United States, which suggests that there is a file future monetary adjustment.
Economists like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is happening.
But, in doing so, they tend to exaggerate the role of the central banks.
In fact, the increase in the rate in the United States was only one in a series of subas charges -- the sixteenth -- in succession.
Any other central bank important increased charges after started falls securities between May and 7-8 June, when several did (the European Central Bank, India, South Korea, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey).
Another factor is the price of oil, which rose by 24% between 22 March and 2 May mark, the time.
Certainly, this was an important event which may affect the securities markets throughout the world.
The increases in the price of oil have been responsible practically all the economic downturns since the Second World War.
Even so, increases in the price of oil do not correspond with the period in the middle of May in which the rate of the securities markets more fell grind to a halt.
To say that the increases in the price of oil caused the fall in the stock markets presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.
But the securities markets are not very logical, and there could be a delayed response to the shocks in the price of oil.
As with any other price in the financial markets, a higher draws attention.
When oil prices rise quickly, people look at the news linked to oil prices and talk more about oil prices, thus creating greater sensitivity on these reports.
The crisis in the Middle East is linked to oil prices and dominated news in May.
Increases in the price of oil amplificaron possibly in the minds of investors signals agoreras and the strong language used by several political figures.
On 8 may, in response to the inflammatory statement of the Iranian President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Vice the Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, said that "the President of Iran should remember that Iran also you can wiped off the map" .
In the same way, almost at the beginning of the collapse of the securities markets may, Ahmadinejad visited Indonesia, the most populous country in the world with a majority Muslim, and on 13 May newspapers published that students two universities more prestigious the country had ovacionado standing.
This story could have been interpreted as proof that bluster of Ahmadinejad on the nuclear issue was redituando politically, what feeds the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East could result in oil prices even higher.
These reports may seem much more remote market values that monetary policy.
But how reacts the public against them, together with the recent increases in the price of oil well, largely by the change in the psychology of the market.
Attitudes towards the risk changing all the time, and episodes such as the declarations of Ahmedinejad Peres and can precipitate such changes.
In this way, while these things happen ways of difficult to quantify, perhaps analysts should pay equal attention to Ahmadinejad's words to the Bernanke when they try to understand the direction in which the world stock markets.
Economists perhaps do not like to concentrate on the public and how interacts with changes in price, the news from all over the world and the dynamic speculative.
After all, do it means that the economic facts are less predictable (and economists, less omniscientes) what they like thinking.
But this approach makes sense in intuition concerned.
What is really on the minds of investors?
It is Ahmadinejad is a a a Bernanke, no.
Ahmadinejad is embarking upon an adventure; not Bernanke.
And, perhaps most importantly, Ahmadinejad is a destabilising influence; Bernanke, no.
In fact, whatever their fundamental cause, falls in the middle of May in share prices throughout the world indicate a psychology market unstable.
It beggars belief that were involved solely in views on a possible monetary policy and not with most important issues and deeper, such as energy and political tension, which underpin the performance of the global economy.
Why should pay more for fairness?
Marks & Spencer, a supermarket chain and with 400 clothes shops in all of Britain, recently announced that it is turning its entire branch of coffee and tea, with a total of 38 lines, fairtrade, a symbol of marketing which represents a production "ethical" .
The chain already sold only tea and coffee fairtrade in its 200 canteens coffee relive it.
It is also encouraging the purchase of shirts and other products manufactured with fairtrade cotton.
The announcement occurred during fairtrade "Fortnight" , the promotion of two weeks of products fairtrade which included giras where farmers in developing countries gave them the British how fairtrade attends their communities.
The move towards a more consumption ethical made significant progress also in the United States, since consumers are clear, increasingly, for organic food produced locally and eggs hens that are not locked up in cages.
In Britain, a survey concluded that half of the people that they showed the symbol fairtrade recognised and understood that relates to products which are better conditions for farmers in the Third World.
There is no comparable research in the United States, but on the basis of data, and discussions with my own pupils, reveals that the figure would be much lower.
Traders seeking a fairtrade certification should pay the producers a price to cover the costs of a sustainable production and offers a salary which allows them to live.
For example, the minimum price for coffee is 1.26 dollars per 450 grammes, no matter how much can have fallen the market price.
If the market price increases above that figure, the price of fairtrade increase in such a way that is still costing five more cents per 450 grammes.
Small farmers, for its part, are required to be organised in cooperatives or other groups to allow democratic participation.
Plantations and factories can use the label fairtrade if you pay their employees decent wages, if comply with the rules of health, safety and the environment, if I may organise unions or other forms of associations of workers, if offer a housing workers who do not live in its own house and if not use of child labour or labour forced.
Not everyone agrees with fairtrade.
Brink Lindsey, director of the centre for studies policies of promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign coffee fairtrade "is a blind alley well-meant" .
With some justification, maintains that the real cause of the fall in coffee prices was not the skim off of multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Brazil and Vietnam, combined with new technologies which make it possible to grow coffee with less workforce and, therefore, with lower costs.
According to the opinion of Lindsey, if we want to help coffee growers, we should encourage them to leave the coffee and crops produce more profitable -- and here says, accordingly, barriers to trade and subsidies of rich countries as obstacles must be removed -- or move towards products more courage, as special cafés, which have higher prices.
The curious thing about the argument Lindsey, however, is that it could be said that the campaign fairtrade coffee is doing exactly what he recommends -- encourages coffee growers to produce a coffee special value higher.
Economists pro-mercado not says that corporations blatantly they will apply to esnobismo to promote their products.
If people want to pay USD 48 to 450 grams coffee of of Jamaica because that is what prefers James Bond, economists not says that the market is distorted.
Why, then, be critical when consumers choose pay 12 dollars per 450 grams coffee, you know, was cultivated without toxic chemical substances, under trees that favour the survival of birds, by farmers who can afford to nurture and educate their children?
Economists could reply that, if one wants to help people to nurture and educate their children can pay 10 dollars per 450 grams coffee is not fairtrade but which takes the same taste and to the 2 dollars to save an entity charity to give food and education to the poor boys.
A strategy is possible, but fairtrade has its advantages.
Farmers know that they have to offer a product which I like to consumers, both for his taste and for the way in which it grows.
If the product is sold properly, they can pride itself on having produced something which people seeking throughout the world.
From the perspective of farmers, it is preferable to receive a bonus to sell a product fairtrade receive a gift of charity that would receive in any case, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
Pay more for a label is not fairtrade more "anti-mercado" to pay more for a label Gucci and better reflects ethical priorities.
Fairtrade is not a subsidy government.
Its success depends on market demand, not the political lobby.
Fortunately, in Europe, this demand market is growing rapidly.
Hopefully soon reach levels similar in all the developed world, and where people can choose what its discretionary expenditure.
Marranos, calves and democracy American
In the midst of all the headlines saying that democrats had obtained the control of the US Congress, an election result important step almost unmarked.
Although stressed the flaws in the political system American, I returned faith in the sympathy of the Americans ordinary.
In Arizona, citizens can put a bill to vote popular direct if meet a sufficient number of signatures.
This year, one of the issues which appeared in the boleta was a law to ban atara confinara or to a marrana preñada or a calf criada for meat so that it prevented the animal be return freely, go and extend completely their limbs.
Those who know little about the breeding modern industrial can ask why we need this legislation.
Under the farming methods which were universal 50 years ago and which remain common in some countries at present, all animals have room for taken back and extend their limbs.
However, today approximately 90% of the marranas farming -- the Mothers of pigs which are bred and kill to obtain meat, bacon and ham — spend most of their lives locked up in cages measuring approximately 60 cms. by 2,2 metres.
There must be round go with their legs widespread completely or to give more than one step forward or backwards.
Other marranas kept tied with strings short also prevent them be given back.
Calves locked up in a similar way throughout their lives in pens which does not allow them to be round go or extend their limbs.
These methods are essentially resources to save work -- facilitate the handling of animals and allow farms which have thousands or tens of thousands of animals recruit a few workers of.
Also prevent animals wasted energy moving and fighting.
Several years ago, following protests organisations animal protection, the European Union instructed its scientific Veterinary Committee a report on these methods.
The Committee found that animals suffer not to be able to move freely and not to have absolutely nothing to do in all day.
Of course, common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
As a result of the report, the EU set dates after which would be banned confined to those animals.
In the case of calves, date, 1 January 2007, nearly has arrived.
The individual pens to marranas, since that in the United Kingdom and Sweden, will be prohibited throughout the EU from 2013 onwards.
Are also gradually taking measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, which is generally maintains apretujadas in cages without wire area to extend its wings.
In the United States foresees no national measure of this kind.
Earlier, when my friends European asking me why the United States are so far behind with Europe in terms of animal welfare, I did not have an answer.
If I were pressing, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans are less for animals that Europeans.
Then, in 2002 the defenders of animal welfare included in the electoral boletas Florida a proposal to ban stalls for the marranas.
To the surprise of many, received the approval of the 55% of the voters.
Last month in Arizona, despite opposition a a a sector of the of the ban on the small cages for marranas calves and was also approved with 62% support.
Or Florida or Arizona states are are -- are both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
That is why the results firmly indicate that if all the Americans to them the opportunity to vote on the confinement of marranas preñadas and calves in places such small, the majority would vote against.
It appears that the Americans animal welfare matters so much to them as Europeans.
Therefore, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States in terms of animal welfare, we must look at the political systems.
In Europe, the concerns of the voters on the welfare of animals have been able to influence the members of the national parliaments and Members of the European Parliament, which has resulted in national legislation and EU guidelines which respond to these concerns.
In contrast, in the United States the similar concerns have not had effect a a a members of Congress.
There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals -- and very few national law.
That, I think, is that sector the the the tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of the Congress seeking reelegirse.
The Movement for animal welfare, despite the broad popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of political lobbying and donations campaigns.
In the US policy money more consideration to the opinion of the electorate.
The party discipline is weak and the representatives must meet themselves most of the funds needed to your re-election, and this happens every two years in the case of the members of the House of Representatives.
In Europe, where the party discipline is rigid and parties, not the candidate who are funded campaigns, the money plays a minor role.
In the United States, a nation that prides itself on its democratic traditions, not only lose out the marranas and calves.
What is new about the new Afghan army?
Murder the minister the aviation of Afghanistan (perhaps encouraged by members of the temporary administration in Afghanistan) shows that the Afghan society still is still remains.
The first reforms of the Afghan army will only these divisions broader.
The Minister for Defence of the temporary administration of Hamid Karzai in Kabul already appointed to the highest official of this new army.
The minister, the general Fahim Mohammed, is a tayik district of the of the north of the country that three months ago took the command of the forces of the Northern Alliance which they caught Kabul after bombers American them clarified the way.
On the whole, their appointments are a direct challenge to the goal which has Mr Karzai to reunite the country.
Afghanistan is a nation multi-ethnic, with the pashtun group the largest, with two fifths of the total.
The Hasara and the tayik are everyone around one fifth of the population.
Of treintaiocho high official to the rank of general by Mr Fahim, treintaisiete are tayik and the other uzbek.
If any of the Fifteen to seventeen million pashtun of the country is recruited as soldiers, will serve under a commando structure made up almost in its entirety by tayiks.
The language of the pashtun, however, is so different from tayik such as the Spanish of English and millions of the pashtun age to serve in the militia know only a breath of tayik at best.
The geographical profile of the new military leadership is so narrow as their ethnic constitution.
Treintaicinco of the official treintaiocho most senior come from a small area north of Kabul, constituída by the province Parwan (which is taking place airport Bagram) and by the Panjshir Valley, which for a long time was square strong the Northern Alliance.
Put another way, the leaders potential twenty-seven of the twenty-nine Afghan provinces were excluded from the new military elite of the country.
Perhaps a group with a basis for so little variety could not give the impression that its members are a secretive clique representaran if a large section of the twelve crusade or more political parties of the country.
But that is not the case.
Eighteen of the treintaiocho top commanders from a party, the Jamiat-e-Islami, the Islamic faction headed for a long time for the Mullah and exprofesor of theology Burhanuddin Rabbani.
This was the party which ruled Kabul in the middle of the 1990s, causing bloodshed and chaos which meant that the majority of the Afghan give welcome the Taliban.
Almost igualando the number of members of the Jamiat in the military hierarchy, are communists.
Dieciseis of the treintaiocho have long been aligned with this party, whose ploys in the late 1970s led to the Soviet invasion of 1979-89, which took two and a half million Afghan lives.
Today the majority of the Afghan people see the Communists with the same sympathy that the Czechs or Poles reserved for the National Socialists of Hitler.
True, the people in Afghanistan, as elsewhere, joined the Communist Party for various reasons and ningua way were in favour of all ideologies strict.
But in the case of the generals of general Fahim six were employed professionals of the Communist Party and continued to work for him after the invasion of the Red Army.
The Six, together with three other communists who served as official of the Afghan army, actively worked together over the decade of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
Let us imagine what would have reacted the French if a quarter of the body of official existing in France in the post-war period had taken the camp of the Wehrmacht when he country.
In Afghanistan the news travel quickly in the mouths of mouths.
The nationalists (Afghan among them almost all the Afghan) soon will discover the political background to the members of the inner circle of general Fahim, if we do not already know.
Even this sobrecogeedora evidence unipartidismo and willingness in the training of high command of the new army could be neutralised if the general brindaran professionalism and commitment to the strangle patriotic values of a genuine armed force national through its work.
Unfortunately, only ten of the military treintaiocho promoted by Fahim have fungido as official military professionals.
An eleventh served as pilot.
In contrast, twenty-four of total (the background to the remaining four are unknown) from civil society, with all professions, or the offices of the Communist Party or, in some cases, of making a career as Mullah.
What is meant by all these statistics in terms of the daily reality?
Mean that when the commanders of the international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as the military and diplomats Americans, know at Asistende Minister of Defence of Afghanistan will meet with Abdul Dostum Rashid, a brutal considerably and corrupt military commander and Communist that has been in contact with old friends of the Red Army still in operation in Moscow.
It means that the head of the armed forces Afghan, as well as the head of operations and the head of military intelligence, are also communists, men whose loyalty is uncertain and those who distrust the majority of the Afghan people.
Is that a team which would have the opportunity to unify the Afghanistan fragmented by war?
How will inspire the presence in Kabul such dudable crew, confidence in the three quarters of the population of Afghanistan have been excluded from the high command of the army?
Or is this list, rather, harvest a rapprochement with the governance of the kind "everything for the winner" which is designed (at some future point) to launch another bloody national setback in the hands of those whose legitimate interests have been cynically atropellados?
The Americans, Europeans and people of the United Nations responsible for the definition of policies should ponder these cuestionamientos before afford to allow a merciless seizure of power by a small unpopular and minority.
A recognition to irrational
My applause for the new Nobel economy: Daniel Kahneman, of the university of Princeton and Vernon Smith, the University of George Mason Virginia.
Like many other Nobel prize-winners, these are galardones recognition not only to the work done by señero and Kahneman Smith, but also to schools of thought which helped lead.
Kahneman, which is sicólogo, has shown how people behave systematically modes of that we believe that the orthodox economists.
Research shows not only that people sometimes act differently from what predict economic theories standard, but they are on a regular and systematic basis, and in ways that we can understand and interpret through alternative scenario that compete with those used by the orthodox economists.
For all market participants (and indeed for observers ordinary) that does not appear to be a major innovation.
The agents of wall Street who put on sale actions knew that they would not apply nothing exploited irrationality that Kahneman Smith and explained.
Much of the foot and which led to the economy bubble was based on the exploitation of the sicología of investors.
In fact, this irrationality is nothing new either to the profession of economists.
For a long time John Maynard Keynes described the securities market as something based not on rational people fighting for develar the fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest in which who wins adivina the verdict of the judges.
The Nobel this year is a recognition of the criticism of a market economy simplistic, as did the prize last year (of which was one of the three winners).
The winners of last year was emphasised that the various participants in the market have different (e) imperfect information, and that these imbalances in the information have a profound impact on how it works the economy.
In particular, the themselves rewarded last year meant that markets were not efficient in general, and that the government should play an important role.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets are efficiency as if the manejara an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
This is not novelty for those working day by day in the market (and do their fortunes and taking advantage of saving asymmetries in the information).
For more than twenty years economists have been fascinated by the so-called models of expectations' ' , which assumed that all participants have the same -- if not perfect) information and active way of that markets are perfectly efficient, that unemployment there is never (except when it is caused by the greed of unions or for minimum wages governments), and where there is never a rationing of credit.
The fact that these models have prevailed, especially in the American universities, despite the evidence to the contrary, it is a testimony to the triumph of ideology on science.
Unfortunately, students from these programmes university they now devising policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas which has been termed market fundamentalism.
I malentienda: models of rational expectations made an important contribution to the economy; rigour that its supporters imposed the economic thinking helped highlighting the weaknesses of many assumptions underlying.
The good science recognises its limitations, but the prophets of expectations rational often do not have shown that modesty.
Vernon Smith is a leader in the development of the economy experimental, the idea that it is possible to test out various economic proposals in an atmosphere of laboratory.
One of the reasons that the economy is a difficult issue, and why there are so many inequalities between economists, is the fact that they cannot carry out experiments monitored.
Nature provides us with natural experiments, but in almost all circumstances so much change so rapidly that it is often difficult to fathom what caused what.
In principle, in a laboratory can make experiments controlled and, therefore, make inferencias more reliable.
The critics of the economy experimental are concerned that the subject lead to situations experimental ways of thinking caused outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not so clear and that the inferencias not so as defined in the natural sciences.
However, the economic experiments provide prospects for a number of important issues, such as the best design of auctions.
More importantly, the irrationality of market participants, which was the focus of the work of Kahneman, it has been established repeatedly in contexts laboratory.
Between the results more amusing that have arisen in the economy experimental are those relating to the altruísmo and selfishness.
It seems that – at least in situations experimental) the subject of experiments are not so selfish as raised economists in their hypothesis, except in the case of a group: economists themselves.
Is this because you the economy and discipline attracts people who are more selfish by nature or the economy helps form to individuals, making them more selfish?
Almost with certainty the answer is a bit of both.
Probably, the future experimental research will help resolve the question of the relative importance of these two scenarios.
The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as they are not, as we want them to be.
Only if we understand better human behaviour real hope we can devise policies that make our economies work better.
Bad faith of energy policy Bush
In one of the most sessions surrealistic of the world Economic Forum in Davos this year, experts from the oil industry explained how the derretimiento of the polar polar -- that is happening faster than anyone could have predicted -- represents not only a problem, but also an opportunity: now that can facilitate access to vast quantities of oil.
Similarly, these experts granted that the fact that the United States has not signed the Convention of the sea, the international treaty which determines who has access to oil overseas and other rights minerals sea, presents a risk of international conflict.
But also point the beneficial side: the oil industry, in its continued search for more reservations not, to Congress, to give you the right to plundering Alaska.
President George W. Bush has a strange ability not see the message more.
For years, it has become increasingly clear that their energy policy is quite wrong.
Following the dictates of the oil industry, even members of his own party referred to a law previous energy as a "no left no lobby dissatisfied." 
While praises the virtues of the free market, Bush has done no more than make enormous emoluments to the energy industry, even in times that the country faces enormous deficits.
There is a flaw in the market with regard to energy, but the intervention of the government should be precisely in the opposite direction to the proposed by the Bush administration.
The fact that the Americans do not pay all the price of pollution resulting from its derrochador use of energy -- especially the enormous amounts of gases which cause the greenhouse effect -- means that it is it is this which in turn maintains excessive consumption.
The government must encourage conservation and intervene in the system of prices -- through the energy tax -- is an efficient way of doing so.
However, instead of encouraging conservation, Bush has pursued a policy of "disposed to the United States" first, left US more dependent on oil external in the future.
Never mind that the high demand will increase oil prices, creating a barrage of money for many of the actors in the Middle East which are not exactly friends of the United States.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have finally woken up to the reality of the growing dependence on the United States; with the steep rise in oil prices, you will find it difficult not felt the consequences.
However, almost certainly the hesitant measures its administration will exacerbate things in the immediate future.
Bush still refuses to do anything in terms of conservation, and has supported with very little money its constant refrain that technology is what we must save.
Then, what are we to think of their recent declaration of a commitment to ensure that the USA is 75% less dependent on oil in the Middle East in 25 years' time?
For investors, the message is clear: not invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the source cheaper oil world.
However, without new investment for the development of reserves in the Middle East, growth debocado of energy consumption in the United States, China and the rest of the world means that the pace of demand will exceed supply.
If that were not enough, the threat of Bush sanctions against Iran poses the risk that occur interruptions in the supply of one of the largest producers in the world.
At a time that the oil production in the world is close to full capacity and prices are already more than double the level prior to the war in Iraq, the future implies prices and even greater profits for the oil industry, the only winner clear policy Bush in the Middle East.
It is clear that should not be accused Bush, at least, and finally, having recognised that there is a problem.
But, as always, a look more detailed what suggests proposes another trick hands by its administration.
In addition to refuse to recognise the importance of global warming, encourage conservation or devote sufficient funds to research to make a real difference, the lofty promise Bush to achieve a reduction of dependence on oil in the Middle East means less than what it seems.
Given that only 20% of oil used in the United States comes from the Middle East, its goal can be achieved with a modest change takeover of this resource from other sources.
However, one might think -- no doubt that the Bush administration realises that the oil are traded in a global market.
Even if the US outside 100% independent of oil from the Middle East, a reduction in the supply from this region would have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.
As is so often the case with the Bush administration, the explanation of the official policy is not rosy.
Is Bush playing politics to provoke feeling the the anti-iraní the in the United States?
Or is it just a further example of incompetence and disorder?
So we have seen over the last five years, the correct response probably contains more than something bad faith and pure ineptitude.
The Roadmap of China
China is about to adopt its eleventh five-year plan, set the scene for the continuation of probably the most remarkable economic transformation of history, while improving the situation material almost a quarter of the world's population.
Never before the world had seen a growth of sustained; never before has there been a level such poverty reduction.
Part of the long-term success of China has been its almost unique combination of pragmatism and vision.
While much of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington Consensus, it has embarked on a quijotesca crusade for greater PGB once again China has made it clear that increases search search seeks more equitable in standards of living real.
China realises that has entered a period of economic development which is leading to huge -- and unsustainable demands -- on the environment.
Unless there is a change of course, standards of living will end up being affected.
For this reason, the new plan five years puts great emphasis on the environment.
Several of the most backward areas of China have been growing at a rate which would be tremendous, if it were not for the fact that some parts of the country are growing even faster.
Although this has reduced poverty, inequality has risen, with greater disparities between rural and urban areas, and areas between coastal and inland.
The report development of the World Bank this year explains why inequality -- and not only poverty -- should be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China attacks the problem head-on.
For several years the government has spoken of a society more harmonious, and the plan describes ambitious programmes to achieve this.
Moreover, China recognises that what separates the least developed countries of the developed is not just a gap in income, but also a gap in the knowledge.
So that has drawn up a bold plan, not only to reduce it, but also create a basis for innovation independent.
China's role in the world and in the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects this.
Its future growth will have to be based more on internal demand in exports, which will require an increase in consumption.
In fact, China has a problem rare: a level of excessive savings.
People saves due in part to the weakness of social security schemes of the government; strengthening the social security () pensions and public health simultaneously reduce social inequality, will increase the sense of well-being of the citizens and promote the present consumption.
If they are successful (and so far China has exceeded even their own expectations), these adjustments can mean enormous pressure on a global economic system that is already unbalanced due to the enormous fiscal imbalances and US trade.
If China saves less -- and if, as have announced their authorities, seeks to implement a policy more diversified investment reservations -- who will finance over $ 2 billion daily deficit of US?
It is a matter for another occasion, but it may be that that day is not very far.
With a vision as clear about the future, the challenge will be implementarla.
China is a large country, and could not have achieved the success without decentralizing across the board.
But the descentralizaciones raise its own problems.
For example, the greenhouse gases are global problems.
While the United States says that cannot be allowed to do anything about it, the high authorities in China have acted more responsible.
In the month after the adoption of the plan, were imposed new environmental taxes on cars, petrol and forest products. China mechanisms used market-based to address the problems environmental and global theirs.
However, the pressure on the authorities of local governments to create economic growth and jobs will be enormous.
Will be very tempted to argue that if the US cannot produce in a way that protects the planet, how can they do?
To translate its vision to actions, the Chinese government will need sound policies, such as taxes environmental just to implement.
The move towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems which have affected repeatedly to the developed countries: individual interests that masquerade their arguments selfish after a veil of fragile market ideology.
Some would argue in favour of the economy of the pump: we should not for the poor, since finally they will all benefit of growth.
And some will oppose policies on competition and the existence of laws on sound management authorities: let us act the law of the survival darwiniana.
It will be arguments focused on growth to oppose the existence of social policies and environmental sound: for example, some might say that "if rise taxes on petrol, this will mean suffocation of our nascent automotive industry" .
These so-called political pro-crecimiento not only do not create but which may threaten the same vision of the future of China.
There is only one way of avoiding that: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose the fallacies and provide scope for arising creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
George W. Bush has shown the dangers of an excessive secrecy and limit the decision-making close circle of followers.
Most people outside China does not appreciate just how their leaders, in contrast, have been involved in lengthy deliberations and broad consultations (even with foreigners) in its efforts to solve the enormous problems that face.
The market economies are not governed by themselves.
We cannot simply leave on automatic pilot, especially if you want to ensure that all enjoy the benefits.
However, it is not easy to administer a market economy.
As a malabarista, it must respond constantly to balance economic changes.
The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that reply.
The world notes with astonishment and hope as the lives of 1.3 billion people continue to transformándose.
The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy
It seems appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, that the world is debating the nature of democracy to two hundred years of the birth of Alexis of Tocqueville.
Tocqueville deservedly is famous for rejecting the reactionary nostalgia and consider the triumph of democracy as our destination, while warned of the dangers of democracy for freedom.
Should we continue to share their concerns?
Tocqueville envisaged to democracy not just as a political regime but, above all, as an intellectual regime which gives way to the customs of society in general, and thereby gave him a dimension psychological and sociological.
Tocqueville argued that the democratic regimes determine our thoughts, wishes and passions.
As well as there was a Renaissance man and, in the 20th century, homo a a a man "democratic" is a variety of human beings.
For Tocqueville, the effects systemic democracy could lead to citizens to lose their reasoned thinking.
Only could pretend that viewed as events and values alone; in fact, merely copiaban views the amendments the simplified bodies.
In fact, what Tocqueville drew the dominance of the power "social" on the opinion is probably stronger in the democratic regimes -- point of view that predicted growth of demagogy in modern times and manipulation of the media.
Tocqueville believed that this trend was not limitations effective long term.
Democracies or local societies or small, nor the checks and balances government or civil rights can prevent the decline of the critical thinking that democracy seems cause.
Schools have the power to be little more than enclaves in the middle of the corrosive power of the social influence on the functioning of the mind.
Similarly, although Tocqueville thought to seek virtue as was done in antiquity or have a religion on some occasions could raise the soul also, conflict, with the democratic ideal if we prescribía officially in public life.
In this respect, the heirs intellectual Tocqueville include the theoretical neomarxistas school of Frankfurt, as well as Hannah Arendt, all of whom feared above all to the disintegration of reason in modern societies.
In fact, the French philosopher Marcel Gauchet intituló a book recent democracy against itself.
The lifestyle democratic argue as these writers, tends to destroy the original thinking and to abolish the high "culture" , which results in a mediocrity that makes citizens vulnerable to the enemies of democracy.
But, while history is full of murderous regimes alabados by mass intimidated and misled, the great risk to democratic countries is that their citizens fall into the apathy and the vision of short term for the sake of satisfaction immediately.
The past -- despite the ritual seeking commemorate historic moments -- is obliterated due to addiction in what is new and recent.
Even the ruling classes supposedly well-educated is subject to this charm.
The fundamental problem of the democratic mind is its lack of historical awareness.
Does the shortcomings of democracy really, as Tocqueville argued that the pessimism resigned is the only way -- but realistic unsustainable -- that we have?
I do not think so.
There are ways to fight against what might be called the growing stupidity ' today. '
The first is pressure on defence by an education system that is genuinely critical minds, namely by means of the materials neglected largely (currently) literature, history and the philosophy.
If we want to train citizenship informed and criticism that democracy needs, our schools must stop yield to fashion the the recent and start to improve the analytical capabilities of students.
The impediment largest for that education is the mass media communication, with its tendency to cultivate superficial and fun.
Many people today is more time in their lives watching television in the public class.
Passivity which promote the means is the opposite of active participation that citizens democratic need.
But it is difficult to imagine that the mass media communication (with the exception of newspapers quality) becoming, by its wish, into instruments of education to strengthen capacities criticism of the citizens.
This concern on the mass media communication is not purely elitist contempt towards popular culture.
The question is not only popularity -- after all, Mozart was popular in his time and works plays of Shakespeare atraían both to the poor and the rich -- but the rejection of the mass culture to challenge and cause.
The outcome of that failure is a widespread indifference and a passivity of the public.
In fact, for a long time has been in a flourishing culture global media that is unable to give the ability of the critical thinking or create higher feelings.
It is a culture which, due to their oversight, threatens democratic freedom because cannot create any sense of duty -- to society, to history, to the Community.
Is it too late to do something about a culture which both cutting out the spirit?
Despreciaba Tocqueville to élites of their time for its complacency towards the strength of uprooting of democracy mass.
Perhaps it will also short-sightedness of our leaders as an agent of your prophecy disturbing?
A Europe for all
Today, Members that long ago belong to European Union seem to doubt the future, but in Ukraine we see with hope and admiration.
Unite the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, since Ukraine has discovered to be a nation is not an end but a start.
Indeed, the European unity is indivisible: when a nation is doomed to ostracism, none of them is free.
We Europeans are an essential component of close network, bound together in a single fabric which represents our destination.
Every aspect of our common culture, if not the last century of suffering shared, confirms this.
Everything affecting a European, directly affects us all indirectly.
Never again can afford to live with close notion of two Europes, privileged and dispossessed, known and forasteros.
Anyone who live within the European continent can (or indeed) must be considered outside the Union.
That depend on the great European Pax and prosperity pan-European today.
Of course, some people there are murmurs from that Ukraine is not Europe.
Who come to Kiev and talk to people, both young and more, with factory workers, farmers' wives, lawyers, doctors and teachers who sat ordinary, braving weeks during the cold and snow last winter to defend their freedoms.
Are you not united by a link with those who remained alongside the general de Gaulle in the French Resistance?
Surely they are with those who died fighting for the Spanish Republic in the years 30, with those who liberated Budapest in 1956 and with those who put an end to fascism in Spain and Portugal in 70?
Are you not driven by the same spirit that forces gave the solidarity movement in Poland and the peaceful mass which conducted the Velvet Revolution in Prague in 1989?
That is the real European spirit, and no doubt can derrumbarlo.
To those who say that Ukraine is too delayed and for EU membership, I say: well, that come to my country and see to mothers who are night in their workplaces teach their children to use their computers.
Who come to see the lessons of languages in each nation and town where young people are being prepared for Europe, learning French, German and English.
Those who doubt the European vocation of Ukraine must understand that Europe is not a question of machinery and superautopistas; it is the inextinguible desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
I believe that our future is as promising as brilliant is Europe's past, and that our destination is not to be a forgotten country border region in a problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
Self-determination no longer means isolation, since achieve national independence today means only return to the world stage with a new status.
The new nations can create with their old occupying the same kind of fruitful relationship that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
This is the kind of relationship that my government is seeking with Russia, and achieve it is the way in which we can extend the area of peace in Europe.
Of course, it is premature to do is to indicate the great interest we see with the prospect of membership.
We know that our part in this very building will not be built overnight.
We know that the major projects of European unification do not lie in documents or declarations, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and ensure the safety of all Europeans.
Building a Ukraine worthy of being a member of the EU will not be easy, cheaply and quickly.
However, as the Union itself, is a company that will be achieved.
We know that the challenge is large, but the prize worth the effort, and Europe must know that this is our goal.
Part of the task to renew Ukraine is a battle creative in order to put an end to a century of nightmare that fascism and communism ideologies, born in the heart of Europe, fought for the total power.
Only a few months ago, in the cities throughout Ukraine, our children and their parents faced armed troops, threatening dogs, or even death.
Only a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze, to try to inform the public about corruption of the old regime, was tortured and beheaded by his henchmen.
However, our Orange Revolution last winter showed that the people of Ukraine prevailed.
So, despite the doubts and difficulties today, I maintain an unshakeable faith in Europe.
I rehúso to accept the unease as final answer to the ambiguities and horrors of Ukraine's history.
I rehúso to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically linked to the opaque midnight with the inheritance of communism that can never see the dawn of peace and truth of European unity.
When EU citizens provide a measure the place of Ukraine in Europe, must see both further and closer to what needs at first sight.
Must go beyond the devastated moorlands which left communism, beyond poverty and beyond social divisions, through which our former leaders today, bypassed, tried to extend its bad government.
Instead, they should look closely the face of our Chairman, Viktor Yushchenko disfigured by the poison during the election campaign last year and recalling the words of the French great very great, for whom "faces the most beautiful are those who have been injured." 
The Civil War of Muslims
Is it today the division between Shia and Sunnis in the Middle East deeper than the antagonism between Israel and the Arab?
One might think that, given the response of certain Arab governments to the decision of Hizbulah of attacking Israel.
Even at that time bombs the amendments on the Beirut and stone, Saudi Arabia, perhaps the Arab country Muslim conservative most of all, strongly condemned the actions of Hizbulah, which is an organisation Shia, for instigate the conflict with Israel.
Never before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict a state which is regarded as leader of the Muslim peoples Arab had supported on Israel so openly.
Furthermore, the fall apart from Saudi Arabia with Hizbulah is not an isolated.
Egypt and Jordan have also condemned categorically to Hizbulah and its leader Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, for its lack of responsibility.
What is behind this surprising attitude?
Are we seeing a fundamental change in relations between nationalism Arab and Islamic sectarianism?
Does Saudi Arabia more concerned and afraid to Islam that Shiite committed to the Arab unit and the Palestinian cause?
Accusations of Arabs against Hizbulah suggest that the sectarian divide between Muslims, already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, is deepening and made more widely in the Middle East.
The desire of President George W. Bush remecer the standstill societies in the Arab world intended to lift the forces of modernisation against the elements traditional societies Arab and Islamic.
Instead, seem to have started forces most atavistic in the region.
This open Pandora's box can be given to start a new and more bitter was violence of that perhaps we can only call a civil war ' .
The division between Shia and Sunni has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical isolation and ethnic Shiite Iran not Arab, together with the domination of the Arab countries Sunnis on its minorities Shiites, largely maintained this rivalry in second place.
These tensions retrocedieron further with the oil Islamist created by the Iranian revolution, since it after the identity sectarian Arab lost even more weight as a stemmed identification "Islamic" widespread.
All of this changed when Al Qaeda, a force Sunni terrorism which relies heavily on the ideology of the Wahabis sauditas and its people, launched their attacks on the United States in September 2001.
Now had an arm specifically the Sunni militant Islam.
When the United States opened their wars against the Taliban Sunnis in Afghanistan and the Sunni regime in Iraq, this new ordinary Sunni radical be strengthened still further.
Sunni Arabs in the region, with its new bríos receive, Israel and the West are only one of the threats, while the other is the so-called "growing Shiite" , the arc of land which stretches from Lebanon to Iran, via Syria and Iraq, inhabited by the supposedly heretical Shiites.
The rulers of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the places most sacred of the Muslim faith in the post and Medina, and so are the more inclined to feel this threat.
In the eyes of the Sunni, the Shia not only dominate areas rich in oil from Iran, Iraq and the eastern Saudi Arabia, but -- through the actions of Hizbulah -- are trying to usurp the role of "protective" sleeping central all Arabs, the Palestinian cause.
The kingdom Arabia has become against Hizbulah due to the fact that the real family family family its legitimacy from a strict form of Sunni Islam and doubt the loyalty of their Shiite population.
Ironically, the United States, the traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, which is made possible the strengthening of the Shiites, to topple Saddam Hussein and bring the parties Shiites in power in Iraq.
The Bush administration seems to recognise what it has done; as the arc Shiite is growing in the east of the Arab world Muslim, US seeks to strengthen the protection of the arc Sunni (Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia) in the west of the region.
Israel, otherwise the implacable enemy of Arab cause, now seems to have been integrated this defensive structure.
However, a defensive position with these characteristics is intended to be unstable, due to the panárabes feelings.
Today, the citizens sauditas ordinary still events in Gaza and the southern Lebanon through the Jazeera and other networks of satellite TV.
They see that blood is shed Arab (not Shiite), and only that that that attacks.
In his eyes, Hizbolah has become a model heroic resistance.
This is causing the state saudita deepen the divide between Sunnis and Shiites.
After the official allegations of the Kingdom Hizbulah against the state saudita convened its clerics Wahabis official to give fatuas condemning Hazbolah as an organisation of herejes and cismáticos Shiites.
This type of sentences cannot make further divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.
As these deepen antagonisms, how will believe regimes Sunni who need their own Hizbulah in its corner of the world?
If they come to that conclusion, do not have to seek a great deal, because these militia have already been trained... by Al-Qaeda.
Georgia in the minds of Europe
The era in which Europe can rely on the US to wage war, peace and create democracy in its own back yard came to an end.
As demonstrated recently the crisis in the Russian gas, with the enlargement of the EU back yard now includes not only Ukraine but also Georgia.
In fact, like Ukraine, Georgia facing a test its democracy that Europe cannot afford to ignore.
Georgia was the country first first first initiate "revolution" colours and to demonstrate, with dignity and maturity, the option of its people for democracy and European values.
The flags of the European Union then that since since since in all public buildings in Georgia are a sign of this accession natural and as old as the history of a country for which the ancient Greeks was an integral part of the world known.
Prometheus, Medea, the Amazon, and in neighbouring Armenia, Noah's ark... the Europe of our myths starts here.
With its history, its culture and traditions (including its critical, independent and even rebel within the former Soviet Union, Georgia) would seem to be a candidate ideal for a successful democratisation.
So it is much more worrying which is zozobrando.
Everything seemed to have started sufficiently well.
There was no opposition to political reforms, privatisations, the anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders not stained with arrangements with the former regime, and the implementation of policy a a one.
Since then, however, have brought back a mindset totalitarian leaders in that, on the pretext of represent the will of the majority, seize of ever more power.
As the spectre of the ancient Greeks, the political elite of Georgia seems not to conclude never to die and revival.
The same people and methods of government tried to defeat the "rose revolution" November 2003 have brought back at the centre of power, through the use of their networks relations, which extend beyond the confines of the country, as well as its enormous wealth and their right afinadas skills of manipulation and intrigues policy.
All this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which is not merely polls in voting, but in the separation of powers.
The government interfering in the affairs of the Parliament, which in turn is to monitor the details of the executive... so what in my case included the nomination of ambassadors and their daily rutinas!
Finally, and most importantly, the judiciary is not yet independent, which undermines the rule of law and prevents private investment that both are needed.
Democracy in Georgia exists in his head, but not yet in their bodies: the citizens still contemptuous policy as a dirty business, abandonándola who should have been pensioner long ago.
However, the hope of democracy is strongly rooted in the people, the civic organisations and the media.
Now is the time for Europe to ensure that this does not hope hope hope.
The United States has already done everything it can to support political stability in Georgia, since its independence.
There is no doubt that the stability not always amounted to democracy for the government of Eduard Shevardnadze, the former foreign minister of the former Soviet Union which was drawn of power during the Rose Revolution.
However, the Americans generously invested to support the survival of the ideas and democratic leaders.
Although the foundation endorsed by the financista George Soros not manufactured the Rose Revolution, as confirmed by Russian nationalist, certainly, nutrió stimulated and supported the preconditions of democracy.
However, in order to help consolidate democracy, Georgia now needs the support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to offer.
Models for the balance of powers, the functioning of the judiciary and democracy of must inspire in forms European closer to reality Georgian that the Anglo-Saxon models of American type.
If Europe does not accept this challenge, traicionaría their fundamental duties in one place (small Mediterranean, flexible, with old historical traditions) where democracy has a much greater chance of success in Ukraine, which is enormous and which still prevails a Soviet mindset, not to mention the Central Asia.
In fact, not to support the nascent democracy of Georgia probably delay the democratic progress in Ukraine, Belarus and even the same Russia.
Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
Although Russia has never renounced their dreams and instruments of imperial dominance, it was resignando the inevitability of democracy, at least in their margins.
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden eruption of the famosamente irrational "derzhava" : a Russian ethos aggressive glorifying the state and affirms its strength through the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis Russian.
It is just as safe as any sign of decline of democracy in Georgia and states other other others will give impetus to ambitions the the amendments.
It is the responsibility of Europe convince Russia that there is no hope of a return to the past.
Europe must take on this role not only to ensure the future independence of its energy supply, but also to demonstrate that the European values of freedom, democracy and justice between peoples have a real force.
To achieve this, must equip itself with the necessary instruments: a great disguised foundation to promote Europe and to support political reforms, a university to educate the future executives of the emerging democracies, a police force and a set of judges and magistrates to breathe life into the models that we want to emulate.
Above all, Europe needs conviction.
If Europe today cannot be persuaded that you have a vital interest in the future of its neighbours, who is going to believe tomorrow in Europe?
