Our rights declaration is the first of this millennium.
We need to know organize ourselves as in order to be able to receive in good condition to those countries that are knocking at our door.
In Article 87 should be included the existential assistance with cultural and social purposes, so that these important charitable institutions can enjoy a lasting protection.
Some argue that can be created an internal market in Europe without agree on basic values and principles.
I would like to pay tribute to the important and substantial intervention of President Prodi.
As you know, this is a deliberate decision which took place in Amsterdam, to distinguish the two functions well, the High Representative, unlike the Commission, is not independently, but has the task of coordinating the common foreign and security policy which fall within the competence of the Member States and in that case we must make it perhaps a broad area to the intergovernmental aspect.
The Presidency has asked to come up with in Nice the way for the future.
In fact, we can want to see more and better, but I think in all honesty that this is a good start.
Consequently, I am confident that the European Council in Nice associated with this project and to decide it was first started in particular as a project, not as a fait accompli, having adopted the reforms that we now need of course.
However, I have also indicated specifically that on the basis of this we can achieve extremely important objectives with the Community method with which we have at present, for example, to better action in the Balkans.
Only if we manage to involve Russia in the West and the European Union, we will be able to influence its policy and maintain contact and discussions with that country.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0767/00) by Mr Napolitano on behalf of the Committee on constitutional Affairs on the Charter of Fundamental rights of the European Union
Is this genocide and is trying to eliminate completely the freedom of the press and the rule of law, whose existence is already precarious.
Precisely in order to respond to the expectations of this pensioners who is Giuseppe Italia and live in Cremona and to which I would like to sail in the Po, I voted in favour of the Piecyk report on the development and the development of seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals.
- (DE) the outcome of the vote in this Parliament will impossible to achieve the objective of the directive, an objective recognised and that have been made all the speakers and the Commission.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Skinner report, as I said during the debate before the vote, because I believe that the risk capital is important.
My group colleague Armonie Bordes pointed out yesterday in an effective manner that only a minority has an interest in the transfer of Community money and contributions pensions to the risks of employers.
Therefore, the Charter will serve as a above all to confirm the current practice, even a step backwards, the Member States, rather than represent a step forward.
Mr President, at last we have a Charter of fundamental rights of the citizens of Europe that it contains an article, Article 25, entirely devoted to the elderly.
In principle this text may appear out of place, as is basically existing rights, but if the Treaty is incorporated with binding force, as called for by the European Parliament, in the long term would tend automatically to the standardisation of the national rights in Europe, would give a disproportionate to the Court of Justice; power would be greater centralisation around the European institutions, would limit the scope of autonomous decision of each nation.
· must be avoided a burden overload with detailed regulation, which should be reserved for the provisions of lower status.
I will come to vote on the other letter, taking part in the demonstrations in Biarritz, on 13 and 14 October, and of Nice, on 7 December 2000.
Progress towards the accession of the 12 candidate countries
In my view, a number of Member States do not have understood until today, the existence of this link and the hesitant progress of the Intergovernmental Conference can lead to major difficulties in carrying out enlargement within necessary.
We can only lead to in practice on a sustainable basis all the points that I have said so far if the policy and leader of the candidate countries and the European Union - and here I agree, Commissioner, to inform the public that the enlargement of the European Union is beneficial in itself.
This is the formula enshrined.
Allow me to mention the second approach according to which the presidency wishes to make progress during this six-month period the enlargement process.
What I propose, therefore, is to work in this direction with the idea that we need to look at, from the point of view of the year 2003, what the candidate could join in that date.
I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok, for his comprehensive and explanatory report, as well as the other rapporteurs.
In these negotiations does not arise in no case "if..." , but "how" and "will" .
But it is also have achieved because the prospect of membership of the European Union provides hope for the solidarity of the European peoples and because this is required solid political and economic foundations.
A number of countries have made, with regard to the second criterion economic competitiveness in the internal market, very significant progress that are very quickly to compliance with the requirements of membership.
Therefore, we intend to coordination with the national governments, programmes of Parliament and other institutions is as close as possible.
In every country of the expected accession with a great deal of concern the Commission' s opinion annually on its progress, it will be sending out again shortly, on 8 November.
We have chosen rightly the principle of differentiation, according to which each candidate country will be judged on its own merits.
This debate is another opportunity to my political group to emphasise that the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Cyprus and Malta, is the best guarantee for the future of all of us in Europe, both in the East and the West.
It is a matter of the utmost importance, and in spite of this, something strange, has given rise to the public attention.
The people spent jokes by saying that, after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, enlargement is still to five years.
The next opportunity natural will be in connection with the following elections to the European Parliament of 2009, but we want to try to ensure that the greatest possible number of countries can join in 2004.
In addition, they are six aspects of fund that we are concerned about by the method.
In fact, we are, of course, in the very model of European integration, in other words, the simultaneous integration of all sectors of activity, beyond the traditions or the specific features of each other, changing again in a trap.
Your words have the support of the President of the Central Bank Hungarian: "the European Union must give precise signals" , otherwise, Eastern Europe suspected or accused that Europe is not seriously in enlargement, which could lead to a dangerous disappointment on the promises of Brussels, and I quote the Hungarian spokesman.
But things must be clear: there can be no accession with the cheap.
This is an idea force which is also a big idea: we do not enlargements against the view, and the best way to make the enlargement with the opinion of its participation in elections, since the elections are an expression of democracy and the method of citizens' support for the political system.
- (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something briefly about the conditions of the desired stage by several parties.
I would be very surprised if they were not this pressure.
But I have already indicated that all countries are relatively quickly to the readiness for accession.
This means that the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products sector is already agreed without the Poles have the concern that agriculture sink to the bottom.
Efforts have been taken, but, in general, peace and trade have established stronger links between the citizens, now even more solid with monetary union.
What counts must be the outcome of the negotiations.
The only amendment that has been tabled is already covered in my report, but I welcome the fact that the group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would like to stress the importance of equal treatment for the citizens.
Here is not just a law on public service but also that there are opportunities for young people employees of the administration and an appropriate payment.
This applies both to Latvia and to the European Union.
It has planned lita' s link to the euro in the second half of the year 2001.
Mr President, Commissioner, Poland, the country for which I am the rapporteur, is the largest and most important, but, as we know, it is also the most problematic countries preparing to join the European Union, as problematic voices to be heard on its possible exclusion from the first group of countries which will be included in the first place.
Poland, the countries of Eastern Europe, the communist countries which were have too many unfulfilled promises.
There is still a point that is always when it comes to the Czech Republic, which is the problem of the Roma.
Slovakia is not condemned to the second group, and it is only natural that wants to join when they make the Czech Republic.
At the same time, I would like, in conclusion, to make a comment on the internal policy.
Thirdly, and as far as agriculture is concerned, the level of productivity is even lower than that of the European Union, it is important to ensure the total opening up of the agricultural market to the necessary funds for the privatisation of land, the modernisation of farms and marketing structures, as well as for the improvement of incomes.
Bulgaria expected forward to the time of accession in the European Union and NATO.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and the present government the economy, at last, is giving real signs of improvement.
I hope that these matters become the priorities of the new Parliament will take office in a fortnight' s time, and the new government.
But we would point out that the final solution, just and lasting must fully respect both the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, which is neither more nor less than the current international law, and the principles governing the European Union.
Malta in addition to a democratic stable institutions operate.
- (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary affairs, we want to make our contribution to this debate.
Must also apply, the European Community law is not only a law in the books but must also be in the candidate countries a law on the action.
This change is a tough demands on people in the candidate countries but at the same time ensuring their future and the future of their children.
Special attention must be paid, in that I agree with the previous speaker - to the border regions.
In this context, we must not let alone to the Commission.
The candidate countries want to achieve a rapid economic growth, even if this takes place at the expense of a political nature protection previously established.
We are faced with a traffic of backwards and forwards of bad habits, many of them linked to health.
Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a strong and united European continent.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which is responsible in the domain of regional policy, transport and tourism and the trans-European networks is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the various Community policies sectoral in favour of a global policy of town and country planning.
But first I would like to make the point that the transport infrastructure will be of central importance for the success of enlargement.
- (DA) Mr President, I would like to join in the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is the greatest task facing the EU.
A great deal of pressure has been exerted on the traditional social values in Central and Eastern Europe.
EL European People' s Party does not want to impinge on the responsibilities of the candidates with regard to the pace of accession, because we cannot give a date for this.
The second point is the mention of dates.
There is also another reason.
Thirdly, the acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the various countries and the EU as a whole depend - and this has shown Denmark - to a large extent to reduce social and democratic deficits of European policy.
The term populism is shameful that the technocrats attributed to the will of the people when it is expressed in a way that they do not.
Ladies and gentlemen, have a pause to eat and relax. we are continuing to 21.00 noon.
In a longer-term perspective, there will be a single currency in the whole continent.
In these issues focus internal battles in each of the countries.
I invite them to fight for a different Europe, of all the peoples, which has been of all such inhumane, in which the people are masters of their fate develop relations of peace, freedom, fraternity, of mutual beneficial cooperation.
I have publicly praised the work of these organisations and, in particular, the challenge of Romanian appeal which is based in Birmingham and other Irish organisations supported by many people, including Daniel or Donnell, artist of Irish varieties, which promised GBP million and brought in that amount in Ireland and other parts of the world.
The Nice Summit must provide above all clarity as to whether and how the EU will act on his part to be in a position it to be extended in depth and in good time.
The Poles are wondering: we will pay when we espouse or will we be second-class countries?
I am sure that, with good will and with the help of the European Union, we will be able to find a solution that will enable the two communities live in harmony and prosper as they have done for centuries.
But we have also dealt with the issue of minorities, because the issue of the integration of these minorities, including the linguistic integration, it is also important in these countries.
The requirement for membership is, in essence, the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
We have talked about the benefits of enlargement, and this is one of the areas where Lithuania shows us the way.
Just imagine if we were all like them!
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank and congratulate Mr Brok and the other rapporteurs, but, first of all, I should like to confine myself to Slovakia, more specifically, to the political situation of minorities.
I urge you to Nice to determine a up to date when provide for conclude the negotiations with the most advanced candidate countries, without mentioning names.
The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in its progress for the entry into the Union and, of course, making the planning of the assistance should be even more decentralised.
The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups in this Parliament, the government and the civil society plays an important role in this regard and, as we have seen, also positive.
We are ending up with the division of Europe in two, and not creating a new division.
All this is in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and I congratulate him very sincerely on behalf of our group on this report.
From this point of view, I believe that the issue of Cyprus is the most will determine Europe' s ability to see their political characteristics.
I myself live near of the Baltic Sea, which concerns us all.
The political vision remains the same.
That is why I was very nice to hear Mr Klaus Hänsch, who has spoken on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, when the Commission wished to make a real view on the consequences of enlargement, and also on the economic impact would if not be enlargement.
However, I share the opinion of our rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, that without transitional periods cannot function in the interests of both parties and as a member of a border region which, like Mrs Schierhuber, has a farm agricultural close to the Czech border, it is very important that arise common economic areas more approximate without problems and lead to positive results on both sides.
I would like to stress three aspects as a Social Democrat.
The EEA, in which they are including the issues of the first pillar, will allow the access of the economies of the candidate countries to the internal market and will give young people and science the right to participate in exchange programmes, but, on the other hand, not force the EU to widen its system of agricultural subsidies to these countries, in this way the EEA agreement would contribute to a positive impetus, above all, to the economies of the candidate countries - very in need of growth to make their societies in a position to join, but also to the national economies of the EU, as it is estimated that, by means of economic growth, could cover even two thirds of the total costs of enlargement, and perhaps even more so if we come to the model of the EEA.
Secondly, let us say no to the idea of big-bang of accepting a large group of applicant countries at the same time, because that would stand in the way of the principle that the countries are accepted on its own merits.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process of the excellent speech by the President of the Prodi Commission.
In this context, I would like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council and point out that recently the Council responds with a great deal of ground to the written questions of Members.
It is worrying that this is happening in a country that is going to join the European Union.
I would ask the referral back to committee for its preparation.
- (SV) Mr President, today we will discuss and perhaps we will be voting three reports dealing with this matter, two of which are my.
All those involved in the food chain would benefit.
The safe food have a cost in the whole chain.
We must therefore go along with Mrs Paulsen and the Commission, and adopt the principle of no-disolución, to give security to animal feed and protect really to European consumers.
The 1999 directive is a text well thought out and we can show some success, because they have managed to reduce the burden of demonstrable way.
But simply accept the possibility of "dilute" products is not the solution.
Very quickly, that we must insist on amendment No 37 on dioxin.
On this point, we agree.
For this reason, the result is that, as European consumers, we will have to continue to buying meat and milk and blood products produced in the world markets with feedingstuffs which do not have any connection with the thresholds and the limit values which we have set up the European Union, and with a feed production system that is raw materials on the international markets, free to mix up any principle and wording before sell their products on the territory of the Union.
Before the second reading, we need to know the Commission' s view on how the evaluation will be carried out of the risk factors.
On the contrary, it would be unfortunate if they were to be adopted, for example, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, since that would mean that would disappear the possibility of the Member States to intervene quickly to discover the new dangers.
The protection of consumers is for animal feed, on the content of the feed, your statement and, finally, its administrative control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Paulsen on undesirable substances in animal feed deals with an important issue which, as all the important issues, raises many discrepancies.
President, the discussion on this excellent report by Mrs Paulsen had very emotional nuances in a few points, and I believe that, after the completion of this debate, we must assume that the requirements to the cattle feed industry are, of course, strict but then we can do that quality be amended by adding components.
These three proposals dealt with, individually and collectively, the serious shortcomings which the dioxin crisis has brought to light.
Amendment No 33 removes the possibility of re-exporting to the regulatory posts country of origin.
Amendments Nos 41, 42, 43 and 44, which seek to introduce the possibility of watering down under certain conditions of raw materials contaminated feed, are also unacceptable.
That should be enough, bearing in mind our commitment to establish an early warning system covering the whole food chain and animal feed in the new proposal on the food authority.
Commissioner Byrne, following this directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs there is in fact an old problem, in particular, the open declaration.
This is a benefit that I have brought this morning' s sitting.
If we do, if you transponemos quickly and if we supplement quickly the codecision procedure, no doubt we will have gained a lot, and I am sure that we will be able to maintain a very strong and unified position before the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the future too can happen again or at least we cannot rule out that are made in animal feed raw materials polluted.
The BSE scandal was the most serious and most well-known example.
Common sense, as our rapporteur said - it would be clearly have a label open, to present the list of ingredients.
I believe that the technical qualifications and competence of the members of the Committee on Agriculture and rural development to judge on issues relating to agriculture and also with the animal feed there is no doubt from the point of view of the search for a solution with a practical approach and practicable farmers and consumers concerned to implement and understand.
That is the positive side.
In my opinion, it is a legitimate right to information must be satisfied.
I would ask, Madam President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries and on my own behalf, to send our condolences to the families of the victims and the local authorities of both Britain and Marín, Galicia, where they are most of the victims.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Are there any objections to taking this oral amendment?
That is just as the rapporteur has explained things.
The majority of its technical proposals deserve to be supported enthusiastically, for example those relating to food safety, the dismantling of the first generation nuclear power stations, the protection of the environment, the fight against social dumping, the essential code of conduct for companies in the West when working on this, and so on, the task is enormous, and also absolute priority.
At the same time, barriers to overcome are considerable, especially at budgetary level.
Enlargement to 28 countries not only change the geopolitical framework of the European Union, but also change its structure, because the total population will increase (+%), but at the same time it will do so the number of "disadvantaged regions" .
In this context, we must bear in mind that, because of its strong economic and social weight, agricultural and food competitive sector will be crucial to the success of the process of transformation and restructuring of the candidate countries.
In this respect, I would like to see the outermost regions, which 6 out of every 7 are still in the group of the 10 poorest EU benefit from the Structural Funds, not only on the basis of the only criterion of GDP, but also on the basis of geographical indicators, demographic and, above all, social.
As we reject, for the sake of the French, we cannot in all conscience, adopt its extension to the countries and the peoples of this, only released from the communist dictatorship, which still cannot know the trap technocratic and totalitarian who want to be.
We should have be content with the national reports and, at most, a brief resolution, but full of content.
The current system, with subsidies, aid and quotas must be replaced by free trade and the adaptation to the markets.
The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language that it has been used within the European Union.
For me to talk in terms of enlargement does not recognise the membership or not belonging in some countries to Europe.
Our neighbouring country has worked with determination over the last ten years in order to meet the accession criteria.
Latvia has a place in this Chamber, not only because overall, its progress you are right to this "confidence credit" essential to complete a successful negotiation of this kind, but, above all, and above all, because in Europe is at home.
Gawronski with this report, I believe that Poland is the rule, among all those who have applied for membership, which deserves more than other our support, given that, without the very important initiatives of Poland, would not have fallen communism and today we would be talking about this problem.
This may not be so obvious to the population, which is still largely Euro-sceptic.
I urge you to accept this signal to Prague, this request, this request to establish a dialogue, and to reply to him and make sure, together with this House, in order to make it possible to overcome the legacy of a was nationalist.
I welcome the Wiersma report on Slovakia' s application for membership of the European Union and I agree with most of the conclusions reached by the rapporteur.
I am very pleased to take this opportunity to make a I welcome in particular the elderly and pensioners of the Bulgarian Republic, as stated in the report by Mr.
If Romania continues to make progress and the European Union adapted its institutional structure and policies, in order to be able to cope with enlargement, I do not see any reason why that Romania should not be admitted to the Union.
Whatever solution is taken with regard to the settlers, and it is one of the difficult issues, together with the return of land on both sides, it is too hard, if we do not do some reservations.
Unfortunately, some of the points that the Committee on foreign Affairs, Human Rights, common security and defence policy pouring in the draft report on the request for accession of Cyprus to the European Union does not facilitate things.
This task will not be easy, if we look at the lack of good will of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey.
Stenzel report (A5-0243/2000)
Unfortunately, I did indeed have a small food poisoning in the European Parliament.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of a ban on the dissolution proposal in the European Commission.
We must urge the countries of the ASEM in this resolution to put pressure on the military regime in Burma to restore democracy.
We are partial in our approach and implementation.
We cannot afford to be overcautious.
Some important aspects of the regulation are: firstly, the regulation of the burden of proof.
Equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the EU.
That is why we need legislation against discrimination.
In part, as a result, we have before us a great deal of legal and technical amendments that seek to ensure a level of equal treatment against discrimination on the grounds of race, on the one hand, and on the grounds of religion, inability, age and sexual orientation, on the other hand.
We had to make an effort to balance, moderation and good technical legal and his report reflects, in my opinion, these qualities.
I also take the view that the cases of discrimination are not as many as to merit legislation.
In the action programme there is sufficient funds to replace this work taking place in the fifth framework programme and, I hope, be monitoring in all the other framework programmes, although we will have to ensure that they are compatible.
Everyone agrees that we must fight against discrimination, but the opinions vary on how to do it, to what extent and in what methods.
I was able, in the Committee, makes me angry as well, against the fact that experts can also be outside the NGOs and yet have things to say.
We are also very satisfied with the provision of the directive makes it clear that equal treatment for disabled also means that is expected of companies to make adjustments in the workplace.
This is the only way we will fight effectively against discrimination in all the areas of human coexistence in Europe.
After all, as we learn from the major democracies anglosajonas, racism and discrimination are fought by the liberal democracy and not with the restriction or the gradual erosion of the freedom of speech and freedom of expression, association and economic.
We have a proposal that homosexuality amounts to the same category as the Holy marriage.
We are building up the positions of the European Union to specific situations suffered by its inhabitants with regard to discrimination and equal treatment.
I would also like to comment on the issue of religious exclusion.
There are those who I have expressed their concern at the possible interpretation of the recitals relating to Article 1, which, once again, may seem unclear, but make a distinction between sexual orientation and behaviour.
So there is hierarchy in discrimination.
In New Caledonia preference is given on the basis cromática skin.
The first positive element of the directive is the "one size fits all" approach from the original idea of the treatment of discrimination, which is particularly important if we want to a proper implementation of the directive.
Therefore those who come here to say that Europe must not include in a directive we want to defend the values that all of us, confuse.
We should not interfere in these achievements that we reached with so many efforts.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media should play an important role in this task.
Experience has shown that the promotion of legislative measures to combat discrimination is essential, but it is not enough.
We must avoid red tape absurd, that the only thing that will be reduced to Europe to a purely materialistic entity, politically correct, but meaningless.
I believe that this Parliament has accompanied as if it were a Christmas tree the little advanced legislation that the Commission would have wanted to put on the table.
I would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, Mr Mann and Mr Cashman, this excellent report.
I will accept the amendments that seek to highlight the importance of prevention and the fight against discrimination.
The second category is intended to clarify the text of the proposal of the Commission and the third covers a large number of amendments which seek to adapt this proposal to the race directive, which was adopted last June.
In particular, Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 20 propose the removal of the reference to discrimination on the grounds of racial and ethnic origin.
I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to the natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
We cannot expect a public support the establishment of the peace operations, if our troops are to die as a result of shells from weapons that we ourselves have provided.
In my own country, in order to have a scatter-gun need a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo of my garden.
Another important point is the ban on the export promotion and marketing of equipment and know-how used to inflict torture.
Having said this, I would naturally like to congratulate Mr Titley on his excellent report.
We must extend our examination, on the one hand, in addition to the issues of compulsory force, also to other aspects outside the strict equipment for military use, such as the disarmament and the increase in the effectiveness of the body of police and customs authorities, and then, on the other hand, to the applicant countries, as Mr Wiersma has just mentioned.
The control of the system of the money is strongly more difficult to circumvent the provisions on the arms trade.
The aim of the annual report is to find possible improvements.
The European Union is currently examining the possibility of continue the project after its expiry in November of this year.
Presented at the next Council "research" have been defined a methodology and indicators and is.
Thank you, Commissioner.
With regard to the problems of the SMEs, of course we have seen that in the framework programme, SMEs are, as provided for in the budget decision.
This is, at least, which seems to colegirse the debate on the budget in Greece, and the fact is that many are the views of the European Union, is that true?
With regard to the pluridisciplinaridad, I share your view.
The first is that specifically mentioned in his report EU participation in national programmes.
It would not be as possible to talk about European research area if we only represent 5% of this research.
Thank you very much, Mr Busquin.
On the one hand, and after the effort made to commit completely funds at the end of the year 1999, requests in body at the beginning of this year for the financing of new projects were necessarily very small.
But I repeat that Portugal did well in the previous period, that I would simply like to point out, and I would like the figures for 26 September, is that the funds really committed by Portugal and for the new period (I am only commissioner for a year) reach 2.6%.
Question No 2 by (H-0730/00):
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions from uses and consumption on mineral oils does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in cases where the Member States favour by fiscal means particular industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case the fiscal aid state, which amounts to a subsidy.
For example, nuclear energy is a very clear and timely case.
Subject: budget line on minority languages budgetary resources that are available from the European Union since 1983 in favour of minority languages was a constant increase to 1995, in which reached their maximum amount, EUR 4 million.
- (DE) Mr President, the Members of this House I am sure you know that the Structural Funds - and this is a new, spent a lot of resources for cultural activities, because I insisted, Michel Barnier, in that they are not invest only in roads and airports, but also in people.
The Commission so that the next year is going to make new financial commitments in this regard.
In relation to the specific proposal of funding, it is not possible for me to take a position, because we must respect the normal procedures.
- (SV) I thought in many alternatives.
And it is a reality that need to be tackled, because we are talking about millions of small and medium-sized enterprises in the whole of Europe.
The rules relating to the treatment of the game, for example of the elk, also apply to the meat used for own consumption?
If these rules are applied to the meat they are consuming hunters, it would mean a bureaucratic disaster for elk hunting.
When this report has been completed, I propose to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of inadequate compliance with the time limits the days in the next few weeks.
At the meeting I had with the group of the Greens/European Free Alliance we look at this issue.
Our question was clear: what measures taken by the Commission? Mr.
The general product safety must also to producers to provide information on the risks to consumers.
The case of Maryam Ayubi is extremely worrying.
Question No 14 by (H-0745/00):
The attitude of the EU with regard to this ministerial meeting in Vientiane and if, in fact, must take place or at what level the EU must be represented in it will depend on the development of the situation in Burma by December.
One final point.
The elections are an important step for the people of Kosovo to be involved in the administration of their communities.
I can tell you that the development of these elections has been more democratic, better than the elections in our own countries, that on many occasions I have been involved or I was an observer.
But we saw as a principle and not in any way, as the end of the process.
The report calls for a better and more closed control on the arms trade and for greater transparency.
Now I find that each year are increasing contracts for weapons and arms components.
We cannot take real decisions based on information and apparent realities.
The provision which have been held together in the same DG should be subject to review.
Although these institutions should have the option to appoint an internal auditor, it is enough to impose certain minimum requirements of the Financial Controller audit.
This proposal does not have the unanimous approval of this Parliament as the Commissioner well knows.
Therefore, we have no objection to creating an independent internal audit service, which today we give the green light to the report by Mr van Hulten.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
In our view the modernisation of the administration is urgently needed.
An independent audit is essential in order to avoid mistakes.
The money must be spent on the future of a more realistic way to the objectives and more efficient, and, of course, we must ensure better than the funds are used for the purposes for which have been disbursed by the budgetary authority.
With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like to point out very briefly: the Commission accepts the introduction of the additional recital.
Therefore, I would like to thank you for your proposals and their advice.
I would like to sum up the proposals in this report which seem to me to be more important and viable, first, the creation of a group of experts composed of figures recognised prestige, appointed by the Member States, to help establish minimum parameters media protection of minors; secondly, the creation of a code of self-regulation between all operators in the sector; thirdly, the possibility of promoting and become accessible filter systems for television and the Internet.
Unfortunately, I cannot subscribe to the demands of the Liberals.
This is still basically task of the legislation of the Member States, which does not exclude the possibility of a consensual agreement at European level on certain indicative values, through dialogue with all the parties involved.
However, and equal other circumstances, I think that it is up to parents deter their children to see this type of programme at home.
Parents need special support in this area, which must include the following: common parameters for the media protection of minors throughout the territory of the European Union; the installation and the availability of filter systems at affordable prices; legal provisions relating to the protection of minors and the responsibility of the media, companies and providers of public and private sectors.
Then I am surprised, and this is a euphemism, to hear some say, during the debates in committee, that there is no proof the harmful influence which may have, on children, the television violence in all its forms.
With regard to the introduction of a code of self-regulation, it should be noted, particularly from a technical point of view, that broadcasters in certain Member States have already introduced codes of adjustment for television screens that should allow parents cut off the flow.
The debate is closed.
In particular, my report has been taken over by the International valuable generalisations for a referral back, in fact, decisions to the Member States.
This would be the least to give us this area of freedom is a fundamental right of every citizen of Europe.
There are even, Mr President, that things have not been paid since 1996.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Evans and Mr Mantovani, for the work he has done.
I would recommend this report to the House and I would recommend support for the amendments tabled by Mr Evans.
Our human resources are our only future in a world where knowledge is what it is.
The problems are not resolved green papers, black or white red, but concrete action.
But Parliament, and it is its role, Parliament pressed for researchers are in spite of everything included in the text.
Today we visit at a crucial time for the future of the construction of Europe.
However, we know that the process has not completed its vitality and its inconclusión threat.
If we do not say now, in this sensitive and tumultuosa stage of the European and world history, when we will do so?
None of us can pretend now know exactly when and how sequence we will achieve these objectives, but we all know that believe in them and deseándolos much, we will have reached the halfway stage.
We must ensure that women take advantage of the work induced, while prevent the recurrence of the same inequalities in the more traditional sectors: less specialized jobs, part-time sometimes not elected, precarious contracts and difficulty of access to jobs direction.
Will be presented to the Council a proposal for a indicators to measure the progress that has been made in this respect.
Finally, in other words, the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reaffirms the integrated approach of equal footing with gender mainstreaming and specific guidelines.
I am thinking in particular of the violence suffered by them, one of the priority issues of my government action and that mobilises in particular - I know the honourable Members.
We know that the measures reconciliation of family and professional life encourage particularly women, even though there are no studies on the current situation of the family and the role that women play in the same, which is no longer the traditional, given that society has changed a great deal and, at the same time, the family structure.
Sometimes, even colleagues in this Parliament believe that exist, but that is not the case.
I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that equality must begin in the home.
This position seems to me to be embarrassing and ambiguous and deserves, I believe, reflection to the proposed projects, because it is not certain that all of this desemboquemos in practice.
In this area there is no equality.
The image of the European Women, which found over the pages of our report, our directives, does not square with these women Danish opponents in the majority of the euro.
In this respect I think it is significant that the report insists on to strike a balance digital age in all sectors of society, for example in the labour market.
That is why it seems to me that an opportunity has been lost in this report because marriage and the family are completely marginalised.
It is something that should also take account of the Committee on Women' s rights and equal opportunities.
We have heard that the previous presidency of the Council first reestructuró the Ministry of equal opportunities in their country and then take it off.
The media wages women are still lower, on average, in almost 28% of men, which contributes to women are the poor majority of the population and makes it more difficult their participation in social and political life.
This is an excellent one.
Today, we have in Europe a impoverishment of women employees and also in France, where 15% of them live, at the end of the day, with fewer than 3,650 French francs per month.
Not all countries have managed to follow his example and I hope that the example of France end growing in other countries.
Of course, the history of women is very long.
We must help really candidates to be put at the level of the acquis communautaire.
But I would need your help.
It is not the case, but it is a text satisfactory and, after think at great length and after a wide-ranging debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided not to table amendments.
The Committee on legal Affairs and the Internal market, after a long debate, understood that it was not reasonable to maintain the legal uncertainty for six years, three years, which is establishing the deadline, is a more reasonable deadline so that, with the appropriate resources and a medium-sized diligence, it will be possible to establish whether there have been or not irregularity in a statement.
This is amendment No 15, relating to fraud.
The objective of reaching above all to a simplified communication but of high quality with a sufficiently flexible legislation, an improvement in the procedure recaudatorio and greater adapting the provisions in the field of customs procedures, responds to one of the requirements of the single market and has been achieved, to such an extent that even many countries have been based on it in order to be able to participate quickly in international trade.
Palacio Vallelersundi for the effort and the interest with which you have worked in the drafting of this report.
Welcome
I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote that will be, but the truth is that we must verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
It is recognised that the knowledge of foreign languages is a necessary precondition for mobility.
We believe that the Member States, for themselves, will have to decide taxes who wish to implement.
I am sorry that the much-needed proposal to introduce a requirement to maintain the documentation for a limited period has not obtained a majority of the votes.
During the negotiations on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we welcome the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs philosophical not sectarian, disability, age and sexual orientation.
My final point concerns the budget for this programme, that is to say, EUR 98.4 million, an amount which is, of course, inadequate for the actions planned.
The arguments put forward in this amendment is explicitly that its purpose is to intervene in the age provisions in force in the Member States, which are, however, perfectly justified on the grounds of psychological development and have no impact on the working life.
In my opinion, well also everything provided for in the new Article 12 (A).
With regard to the belief or the religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
(SV) the Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equal footing in the workplace.
But this only says something of the staff of an internal audit service and nothing of the financial importance and usefulness of this service.
The EU has decided to put in place a common military capacity in order to meet the so-called Petersberg objectives (The fight against the crisis and conflict resolution outside the territory of the EU) and is not, however, a common defence policy.
The world is safer without weapons.
With this resolution is not to reduce radically arms sales in order to promote a policy of disarmament, but only everything sorted out to increasing the profits of industrial groups are concerned.
The communication from the Commission recognises the problem but does not propose specific measures ofuscada because it is in the liberalisation of the market and of competitiveness, and that no proposal concerns the harsh reality, especially for children, the profligacy of multinational companies, which, in its search for profit, fail to recognise the impact of their programmes and products and move the whole responsibility parents, inviting them also to consume new products to protect their children.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that measures to protect young people from the violent and harmful programmes should not be limited to the traditional television, but apply to all the media.
With an average of three hours a day, it is the most important human activity after the dream and for adults, after the work.
On the other hand, women are often jobs "flexible" ; the temporary contracts or the low wages are typical of the sectors that employ a majority of women.
That are falling as first victims of cuts in public expenditure, privatisation in the field of health, the right to medical and pharmaceutical care, how much more the law on the prevention and information programmes.
B5-0792/2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Confederal group of the European United left/Nordic Green Left, on the crisis situation in Peru.
Mr President, I would like that, instead of holding a debate on Latin America in connection with a matter of urgency to discuss this issue following a well-considered discussion in the committees.
We have to see to it that Peru reach the goal with candidate to be equal to the challenge and that they should be able to respond to the demand of the Peruvian people of a political renewal and a substantial democracy.
The joint debate is closed.
However, we know that the Afghanistan is not far Afghanistan is the largest producer of opiates and world, therefore, we are aware of, and we can only imagine the role played by these mafias policies, which are not only policies, in the expansion of trade in drugs.
Calls on the Commission to adopt humanitarian aid programmes aimed at the Afghan people, so that we do not forget nobody on the ground.
The suffering caused by this conflict is tremendous.
For years, a budget line is funding de-mining programmes and prevention.
Paciotti, and I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources for the withdrawal of mines.
B5-0794/2000 by Mr Medina Ortega, Linkohr and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the kidnapping of a Spanish Jesuit in Colombia participant in the negotiations with the guerrillas.
Unfortunately, all we do not have to come back to Colombia.
The Commission has already shown its willingness to coordinate the measures of the package, in the next few days will allocate substantial resources to this end.
Therefore, once again, apply double standards, and I believe that we must deplore.
The attitude adopted by the Albanian opposition I find it particularly incomprehensible, because that deliberately refuses to accept a solution essential intended to remedy a Albanian problem in Macedonia.
It seems to me that it is rather strange that the Macedonians in their country will make mutual agreements.
However, the government, which has shown an enormous value in seeking a solution to the problem University and many other issues, it needs clear positive signs and strong support, otherwise, the consequences for peace in the region can be harmful.
The PHARE resources earmarked for the year 2000 within the framework of the national programme also can be used to help the university during the next academic year, that is to say, the current 2001-2002.
I would like to point out that all the Greek Members already the European Parliament have reacted to this situation.
And all this as far as Greece, which has the greatest maritime sector throughout the European Union, basically concerns the safety of shipping in the Union as a whole.
Over the past few years, in our own waters, have been given many lives at sea, not only in large ferry accidents but also, too often, of our fishing community.
On the contrary, it exploits the innocent victims to promote the wider objectives of the ship owner.
We have to bear in mind that what we are trying to do here is the credibility of the European Union.
In conclusion I would like to stress that the Commission is fully convinced that the problem of the European legal provisions on the safety of passenger ships must be a priority of the concerns of the European Union, and that it is to ensure a strict and uniform application of the same throughout the Community.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have arrived a little late for reasons which you well know, to make a very brief statement on the two issues which are on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade, and in the ex-República of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
Commissioner Verheugen is going to speak, as Mr Solana, on the two issues before us this evening, that is to say the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
We must be prepared to comply with this promise on respect for the will of the people.
Madam President, Mr high Representative, Commissioner, I take part in this debate with reservations, because it wanted to Parliament apareciese solely as a judge entitled to launch an anathema on this or that, at a time when, following the hopes so strongly encouraged in this House a month ago, we are faced with the tragic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the Middle East.
Madam President, my speech today is not based on a number of analysis distance, but in my own experiences of last week, since by chance, I was in Jerusalem and in the Gaza Strip when these disturbances took place there.
Although I am against all violence, cannot be treated in the same standards violence Israeli and Palestinian violence.
I would like to ask you to Parliament, at this critical moment, to make a statement of support to the courageous today have stood up for freedom in the streets of Belgrade, echoing the support that we, as Europeans, not so many years ago we give to those in other capital also fighting for their freedom.
Madam President, the Europeans would certainly very inspired if terms to the ball flight that we launched here the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
The position of Jerusalem is the complicated issue in the negotiations.
For years has managed to pull the wool over the eyes of the people of your country with its propaganda machine and the brutal repression of the media and, unfortunately, has also managed to simply fobbed off to many people of the Western world by creating a false picture of reality.
As long as the tragedy concludes, it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of the free and united Europe, support the mass around the Yugoslavian Parliament Mr Kostuníca and help to achieve and play its mandate.
Just as hard its position makes us fear the worst at the same time - and current events is backed up by these sentences were drawn up a few hours ago.
I wonder if the Commissioner is already looking at the steps need to be taken in order to make it clear that we regard Kostunica really as the legitimate elected representative of the Serbian people, and as the real partner with whom the European Union wants to speak on the basis of today.
The European Parliament would like to express its full solidarity at this historic moment when tyranny wobbling and for your success democracy.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0237/2000) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council decision amending decision 2000/24/EC in order to extend the Community guarantee granted to the European Investment Bank loans for projects in Croatia (COM(2000) 289 - C5-0336/2000 - 2000/0122(CNS)).
I welcome the new political direction opened up in this country after the legislative and presidential elections.
Between the European Union and Croatia in office, amongst other things, a group of advisers whose mission is to offer Croatia their experience and technical assistance within the framework of the negotiations for the normalisation of relations agreements.
Let us not forget that until recently, Croatia was an example of a book privatisation programme completely failed, of which only have benefited from a few, this process must be supported in its entirety.
The sum of EUR 250 million in the form of a loans from the European Investment Bank for the period 2000-2007, which we are debating will not be a milestone, but will serve as a aid and promotion.
That is why it is entirely right to speak on the report "democratisation" .
When Croatia and Slovakia made a apparent independence for the first time, acted as servants of the Hitler regime.
We could also, of course, have considered the issue of the application of guarantees and the Croatian issue in the context of the debate yesterday evening and the situation in Belgrade.
When it appears that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the action to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies only be delayed a few days' time.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 6 October 2000.
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
My question is this: who is entitled to speak on behalf of the European Parliament on this status?
I would ask you, Madam President, you to make every possible effort to speed up the procedure under way in the Committee on Petitions on a letter of protest presented by more than collective social and NGOs against this situation, in which blatantly has failed to comply with the Community rules on the subject of radiation protection.
The post-mortem examination to be carried out practised in Georgia has clearly shown that it was of a murder to possible torture.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to take a major step towards our dream - which, by the way, I do not share.
This is the Basic Law and the basis for any other rules on genetically modified plants.
Of course, is a blunder to another.
(The sitting was suspended at 17.40 p.m. and resumed at 17.50 p.m.)
In accordance with the next item is the debate on the report (A5-0291/2000) by Mrs Van Lancker, on behalf of the Committee on employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council (COM(2000) 379 - 0508/2000 - 2000/2219(COS), the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the regions on the agenda social concern.
Thirdly, I have just one question: to emphasise the importance of this open method of coordination does not mean that this method will replace the social legislation, because we have to set the social rights in Europe too, we must have the courage to draw up the minimum social standards and it is essential that there should be a social rules with a view to the European internal market.
Also, in our view we support the social dialogue and cooperation with civil society and in particular with women' s associations of the countries that are preparing its annexation to the European family, since there too we must achieve a uniform development to continue the steps and the logic of the rest of Europe.
The action areas listed in the communication from the Commission have also been the subject of a general agreement.
I remember, at this stage of my speech, a seminar to be held in Biarritz European, which I will chair, on this subject on 4 and 5 December.
As regards the fight against exclusion, we have come a long way to define, on 17 October, in the Council on employment and social policy, appropriate objectives in the fight against poverty and social exclusion that will form the basis of national action plans.
I have heard in some quarters that, having read the report, agree with the diagnosis, but not with the formula.
Technological development and new methods of organisation speak in favour of a flexible cooperation where we invest more for objectives and to achieve results and less by a rigid regulation.
We need to find that, in our opinion, the archaic practice of which they are accused those who expect a market without obstacles is the best of all possible worlds.
Of course, this has helped to reduce the discontent among workers in our country and to increase investment in the country from the outside world.
On the other hand, the method used is more debatable.
If we are talking about a Charter of fundamental rights and if we look at in favour of a European constitution cannot be estrábicos, but we have to say that we must take all the necessary steps, but this requires a more careful legislation, I do not believe that Mrs
I would like to point out critically the lack of initiatives on the new challenges in the labour protection, the involvement of employees and labour relations.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner and the Minister, Mrs Péry, for this presentation of the social policy agenda.
As we know, Conservatives are opposed to these points, our group gives them a very particular importance.
The third issue is enlargement.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 noon.
The Commission' s measures must be supplemented by studies on the individual access to health systems and social security and pension systems, on the shortcomings in the work organization and, perhaps, also on the general reduction of working hours.
In this way, women will feel Europe more closely, and Europe will gain with the interesting and innovative ideas expressed through its relationship with this programme.
We expect an annual report of the President of the Commission within the framework of a debate to be held every year in the European Parliament.
I am also delighted that is provided for a better distribution of the care of children in order to facilitate the balance between professional life and family life.
My group will take into account in the final vote.
(The President cut the speaker off)
I welcome the Commission' s new approach, and very well thought-out the proposal for a decision for the 2001-2005 programme.
I believe that the large number of amendments adopted common shows the feelings of the European Commission and the Committee on Women' s rights and equal opportunities.
On the one hand, in the course of the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain impotence as a result of certain merger decisions, particularly relating to cases where they have had to go to the Commission' s decision before the Court of First Instance.
I should also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner Monti on when we can expect to be put in place a public register, effective and efficient state aid, and when will become a reality the promised table of results at great length.
Also, I would like to make the point to Commissioner Monti that it is important that in the next report are a rather more extensive paragraph dedicated to the area of financial services.
What I have said it is not only to the energy policy, but also for all the other areas.
Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work carried out with regard to both reports are a positive opinion on both your personal work and that of the Directorate-General for Competition.
I stress this because the market cannot regulate everything and in this respect should not be nor can it be unrestricted competition.
Mr President, today is not a matter of dispute and, of course, I am not going to do, that public aid alter the conditions of competition and are a harmful element which encourages the inefficiency of companies.
To hear you deny the fact that the state aid have fallen during the period 1994-1998, when the Commission itself acknowledges this reduction has been at least rather strange.
And, of course, Mr President, although my opinion relates to the XXIX the Commission Report on Competition Policy, we cannot at the moment to look to the past, but nothing more than to learn for the future.
Mr President, during the time available to me, I would like to address three points: the modernisation of Community law in the field of competition, the activity developed in 1999 in relation to the rules of competition and the issue of state aid.
The Commission has followed acting firm and especially against the cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
Mr Rapkay, to the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the search for its competition policy, and I do not believe that this support will disappear.
This mechanism can be activated or at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which is still in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for the Member States that are currently the subject of an exception, namely Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
For the future, recourse to the capital market should continue to be the only option.
I therefore ask that the report in its current version will be the conformity of the House and that this can also be used in the field of material multiplication of the vine in the internal market.
Today, a review is necessary in view of the development of the phytosanitary regulations and the scientific and technical progress made, in particular as far as the increase in vitro fertilization is concerned
Also, this precautionary principle, I believe that refer to the possibility of genetic modifications means, for example, to reduce the intensive use of plant protection treatments, on the other hand, the precautionary the amendments by Mrs
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in order to comply with the precautionary principle, both in letter and in spirit, if unfortunately articles and amendments which I have just mentioned were not taken out, we need to stick to the opinion of Marianne Isler Béguin, and therefore of the Committee on the Environment, and vote in favour of its abolition.
Mr President, if you will allow me, Mr Commissioner, could you give us its opinion on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, public Health and consumer policy? is Amendment No 1.
The only point on which we could talk about is whether it should I have taken note or not as soon as the French Government sent me the resolution we are losing the mandate of Mr Le Pen.
I would remind the honourable Member that the vote will take place later, at 12.30 noon.
In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
The preparatory group will play its full role until 19 November, the date of the next meeting at ministerial level.
We need this exciting climate, as Mr Moscovici has said and I was also, at the level of the Heads of State or Government, a very serious sense of collective responsibility and historic in a historic moment in the construction of Europe.
There will simply be, ladies and gentlemen, to make sure from now on, with regard to these issues of qualified majority voting, that we will not find ourselves more here the spirit or the climate of Biarritz.
The small countries are not on the orders of the larger countries of the European Union.
I would be grateful if the President-in-Office of the Council to clarify this point.
On the one hand, the presence of the President Kostunica was an historic event.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, there are profound disagreements on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council, as you have pointed out.
It seems to me that we are going in the opposite direction.
Those who are outside of enhanced cooperation really enjoy the same freedom that passengers on the back of a car seats.
I am not here, nor the honourable Member, in order to ingerirme in the German Home affairs, but I believe that this position is deeply coherent and is, moreover, the direction in which the Commission wishes to, if I am not mistaken.
We have started to exchange views on this matter, it is clear that all the Member States wish to maintaining this ceiling after enlargement.
I believe that it will not be the case.
The first is that we have sometimes had the impression that in Biarritz there was an obsession with the debate between the small and the large Member States.
From this point of view, I believe that it is not enough to say that we must safeguard the Community method.
Also, when the incoming candidate countries, each Member State must be able to maintain a deputy or main Commissioner.
The wording of the text of Article 93 is all the more tragic that, once achieved the first wave of enlargement, we will find it even more difficult to move towards the qualified majority.
The clear merits of any new European Treaty must be to convince the citizens of these countries.
Imagine that the fears fed for generations could give the final appeasement without new shocks, prelude to reconciliation, it would have been ignore the resources of such a crisis.
I am also looks no correspondence in Parliament calls for the issue on democratisation.
Those guilty of this are rather those who advocate that reforms are made prior to enlargement.
On the one hand, the head of the Israeli Government' s decision to freeze the peace negotiations by the violence in the region and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of national unity with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
We have learned with a great deal of satisfaction of the victory of the Yugoslav people and the election as President Kostunica.
I would urge you most strongly to Mr Barón Crespo to ask his colleagues Italian I explain why are in government in Italy with a party decidedly communist and why we are preparing to take part in the elections with another party decidedly Communist Party Comunista.
On the contrary, in this area need to make progress in the implementation of the codecision procedure!
The Commission, which has the possibility to take decisions by a simple majority is in a more favourable situation to give this momentum in the future.
The Union does not need now visionaries who have the telescope because in the year 2030, but that needs leaders who will be able to catch the problems that will bring the completion of enlargement in a period of 3 to 8 years, as well as to provide answers to them.
Therefore, it is an open work which has not fallen from the top and has not been imposed.
The debate is closed.
In the absence of this fundamental reference, in the best we understand each other, and in the worst, we slaughtered each other.
Democracy has improved in Europe, but, for its part, the European democracy is ill.
Today, 24 October 2000 in Strasbourg, the European Parliament says something simple, and I say very high: the European constitution? yes, you can, yes, we want to achieve this.
In other words, it expresses the idea that the island in itself is a criterion enough.
I will come to the main concentrándome in the important points of the report by President Gil-Robles, for which I would simply like to say that I find this excellent.
Firstly, the simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report by the European University Institute in Florence.
According to the information - I am going to be technical, forgive me for saying so - which has been communicated to the Presidency, I believe that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version refers only to the implementation of the cohesion policy, to the least favoured islands, and not to the islands in general.
Mr Duhamel, no doubt you will agree with me to say that if there is no success in Nice, there will be no place, at least there will be no credibility, for a reflection on the future of European integration, at least in the current framework.
The European Constitution will also have to establish clearly the distribution of tasks between the Member States and the European Union and incorporate the dynamics of European integration in those areas, such as foreign and security policy, in which there is a need for common action.
Could also be necessary to overcome persistent blockages.
We must clarify the distribution of competences and the principle of subsidiarity.
As you know, in the various Member States and between the various social forces very different opinions on this matter.
Unfortunately, the ultimate objective of a European constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
In fact, in the strengthened European home, there will be people invited to the Bureau military, monetary union, possibly tax, and then the other peoples, which will be.
It is clear that the second version is incorrect because, firstly, in one way or another the Structural Funds cover economically disadvantaged regions and, secondly, because if this interpretation was the right one, not discussed together with the nº30 on the adoption of the statement.
Mr President, I would like to focus my small sixty seconds in the report by Olivier Duhamel, which is a good report, because dares to say things clearly, and the fine words of our rapporteur has finally convinced that a short while ago.
In my opinion, the unity of Europe can only be policy.
It seems to us that the new Constitution should be about to enter into force for the next European elections.
As a result, the described as "least developed" applies both to the island regions and the rest of the regions and, according to the proposal by Mr Barnier, that this is a change in the Italian version of the Treaty, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
The debate is closed.
As my colleague said that was going to vote against this amendment lapses.
Mr President, what is called for here is a formula for chaos.
I welcome the adoption by the European Parliament of the Trakatellis report, because has very strict standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives.
If the immunity of Members of the European Parliament is autonomous, the French authorities should have taken the lifting of Mr Le Pen.
I am particularly disappointed by the European Parliament' s vote on the report on the proliferation of vineyards.
For some, alcohol is as tobacco and drugs, a product which is damaging to the use and the people around them; others, on the other hand, are above all as a source of employment and something with which we can gain a great deal of money.
The rapporteur broadly welcomes the proposals of the Commission' s White Paper on this subject, but you are concerned about the possible consequences of the reform, which seeks primarily to decentralise the application of the rules of competition.
- (FR) although, in the debate yesterday evening, I congratulated Jonathan Evans on his work, I had to express entry my deep disagreement with the excessively liberal approach, even ultraliberal, of his report.
The Agency for industrial development of Ireland has been by reorganizing its orientation in order to achieve half of the new jobs as a result of projects in new areas in the Objective 1 region in the next three years.
The state intervention, funding and other economic incentives or tax sometimes come to balance something this situation before the alarido that lead to the consequences of this policy.
(The sitting was suspended at 14.06 p.m. and resumed at 15.00 p.m.)
The situation in October 2000, in the run-up to take a decision on the figures of the 2001 budget, is as follows.
However, the Council did not hesitate to reduce agricultural expenditure by EUR 555 million in total.
Moreover, we also believe, of course, that should not be simply create 400 additional posts, in addition to the present.
I can only recommend the Council to follow our example.
The administration of this House must therefore be at the service of the members and not the other way round.
The Court of Auditors is the least concerns causes us at the moment.
Finally, it is also up to us to examine the Ombudsman' s budget.
On the contrary, we believe that we should strengthen research, particularly with a view to the accession of the candidate countries.
We also propose that to report regularly to Parliament.
And when is a legislative conciliation on social affairs, culture and the environment, public health and the Commissioner will admit that I am right, we met the Commissioner for budgets, the finance ministers and the members of the Committee on Budgets to read together, so that we do not make a nonsense.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your reception.
Moreover, the room for manoeuvre, in particular with regard to the limits of category 3 and category 4, the Council would like to give the Parliament, ultimately responsible in relation to these non-compulsory expenditure, the opportunity to express its priorities without calling into question the Council, therefore, I am simply going to emphasise the salient points of the Council' s draft budget.
These are two issues often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between the two branches of the budgetary authority.
The situation is similar when it comes to the structural policy.
The outcome of the conciliation procedure this summer was also satisfactory, as has already been pointed out by Mr Colom i Naval, namely that in the future will extend the provision of information to Parliament in relation to the legal bases with repercussions on expenditure.
Let me remind you that in the financial perspectives that were adopted last year only be provision for EUR 1,850 million for the Balkans for the period up to 2006.
I would ask you once again to examine this proposal, the Commission is on the table - without trials prepared and to take account as a possibility.
This material was, of course, useful for the preparation of the budget for 2001 and for the granting of discharge for 1999.
In spite of the fact that, as a member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of the committee and despite the great respect to the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I do not want to insist on two amendments that our committee is to present now before the House and which are still important but the figures have been reduced.
These measures we intend to ensure that judicial control will function fully restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and consolidate it is a Community of law.
The removal of this initiative on the part of the Commission, without replacing it with a proposal on any other, was clearly contrary to the political will of the Lisbon Summit and the priorities of this House.
It was a staggering decision and many of us had the feeling that this very important programme had become just a football match between the Committee on Budgets and the Committee.
The third issue is the European agricultural policy as now appears in the draft budget.
If employment is the political priority of the Union, fisheries, as an economic sector, cannot remain on the sidelines.
I am particularly pleased that he has been able to be guaranteed funding of the Socrates programmes, JUVENTD and Culture 2000, which was coming to an end at the end of last year.
For example, our aid to the Mediterranean countries has a delay affecting the budgets for many years.
Mr President, in the debates in previous years I spoke on behalf of the Committee on culture, youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which Mrs Iivari has represented this evening.
But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we must not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends only 1% of GDP and the administration of a large part is in charge of the Member States.
Let me turn to the global strategy.
This brings me to the strategy of our group, because the essence of our concept is the desire that the Funds have an adequate return to the citizens of Europe.
On the contrary, we must work for a parliament to campaign in favour of transparency, efficiency and the effective democratic control of the European institutions.
When that happens we have to consider how we can resolve this problem.
We want to promote the processes of democratisation and we want to maintain a balanced relationship between the traditional areas of foreign policy that we must now meet.
The greatest problems in the preliminary draft budget are connected with external actions.
Of course, we need a rigorous management; we support it and we should not try to apply it.
It is an extremely exceptional Initiative, especially at first reading, and it is a thankless initiative, because it cannot, in the current context, a majority of votes.
Having said that, the importance of the funds for Kosovo is not raise some problems.
The budgetary policy must ensure that the citizens have confidence in the European policy.
All the measures designed to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises also deserve, therefore, our support.
The level of implementation of the budget.
Preserving the strategic line in the approach to the budget this year and next, the European Parliament is its full area in the budgetary process.
With the transfer of EUR 175 million, we have calculated approximately EUR 25 million more than what we had hoped.
As far as MEDA is concerned, the Council said that the commitments were not a problem, in view of the eight years of delays in payments.
I believe that Mr Duff was here this morning when we mention the European Council in Biarritz.
My answer is very simple.
Ramiro Zapata was the last of the 25 human rights activists murdered and, recently, the Colombian press has denounced the "100" plan of the paramilitary groups to kill human rights activists.
Today I am a little more satisfied that in July with the attitude of the Council, because, as many times in crisis situations, the European Union always seems to be the last authority to reach the international stage and make its voice heard.
The question, Mr President, I would like to end, is whether there is a greater pressure formula that the proposal by the President in its information and if the aid that we are going to give will be completely different from that of the United States, that is to say, addressed not to the fumigation of crops, but the replacement of crops and also to the social aspects and not to the military.
The questions that other Members and I have raised relate specifically to the situation in Colombia.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
Subject: tax on financial transactions the demand for a tax on speculative capital has been gaining ground in the last few months, with the proliferation of the ATTAC committees (Association pour unites taxation South them Transactions financières et pour l l'aide aux European in France and in Europe, and the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and in the Senate of the same country.
I would also like to respond to the question of its influence on the volatility of the currency markets and, in particular, the impact of a tax of 0.1 20 on the profiteers who expect devaluation of the order of 50% to%.
On the other hand, called for in paragraph 6 the establishment of an international organisation arbitration to cancel the debt of the countries of the South.
It is, moreover, what happened in the case of the euro in a year' s level, either to regret it or want to be.
I would add, to what Danielle Auroi said a moment ago in relation to the countries of the South, which some estimates, made by specialists, are interesting figures: for example, a range from 50,000 to 250,000 billion dollars, which could recover from a Tobin-type tax. the UNDP, for its part, estimated at EUR 40,000 billion dollars a year, an amount which could be enough to give minimum living conditions to hundreds of millions of people who are all in the countries of the Third World.
The disease has been identified over the last few months, for example, in different parts of France.
Taking advantage of the fact that are appearing a representative of the French Presidency, I would like to ask: does pay these massacres beef funds of the EU' s budget or will pay you of the national budgets, and you consider that it would be shown that the pay of the EU' s budget?
I would ask you indulgence to can hear the answer.
Therefore, the action taken by the two governments concerned is limited by this international law.
I think it is a mystery that the Commission can say in February and the Council in July how much is needed.
Acting in this way in the name of subsidiarity, in fact, the Union abdica of one of its tasks as has happened in recent weeks in the north of Italy and Spain.
As a member of the European Parliament interested in the majority, how can I approve the expenditure of 11,500 million UK taxpayers' - that is to say, our current annual contribution - when does not have a broad public approval?
With a flexible position on the part of the Council, we could reach an agreement at second reading to wind up the budget.
If someone is not yet convinced, to examine simply the evidence.
Joan Colom i Naval, Vice-President charged with the buildings, this strategy has already introduced.
The political messages in this year' s budget are, as Commissioner Schreyer has already said - many, the restructuring of the agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of the structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
NATO' s war has done too much damage and has caused too much misery.
Despite what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints without undermining the agricultural budget to sustainable rural sector in the current Member States.
And I say so clear and unequivocal: Kostunica I must be given a chance, and I hope that in the next few weeks or months put in place an amnesty, but in the meantime I would like to political and budgetary level to political conditions to the implementation of these two new budget lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
The Yugoslav elections have demonstrated two things: finally people has been hastiado of the dictator Milosevic and at the same time hopes in the Kostunica professor.
In addition, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners will soon be in freedom.
Not to do so, lapse inevitably in the "financial engineering" in the flight and reductions either in general expenses either in the social and environmental costs or in cooperation, but the fact is that, in spite of this, the appropriations for the Balkans will remain inadequate.
In this context, we need efforts to solve the major social problems, such as, for example, the unemployment.
There is an issue which is, of course, a great deal of importance: we have started looking at category four, but has not yet been entirely clear if we have been able to give you a solution, not least because the Council refuses in clear to provide ideas.
The priorities in any budgetary work are important.
This is not very serious on the horizon next to the expiry of the Treaty, but it would be worrying if the legal framework postCECA retain the possibility of extending such practices.
And that brings me to my third point, the challenge before us now.
The new financial agreement does not indicate anything about it, and I have been able to see that the European citizens more and more of the political distrust.
I pay tribute for that.
The availability to the dialogue between all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary cooperation which will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
Those who represent European values in a country sceptical of the EU are now a new argument in favour of the Union, that is, better protection of personal integrity, which is important for the citizens in modern society.
In my own country will be reformed the law of personal data, depriving the parliamentary power on the decisions of the Commission.
Many other points are also problems and deserve the view of the practice to be insured.
The Commission would like to first of all to remind you of the commitment that we have all taken with the citizens to ensure the protection of personal data processed by the institutions.
With this statement, the Commission accepts that the scope of the regulation to be limited solely to the activities of the first pillar.
With a view to honour the political agreement concluded with the Council and the rapporteur to allow the adoption at first reading, the Commission rejects any other amendment that is not part of the Paciotti report adopted by the parliamentary Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, with the exception of Amendment No 69, which corrects Amendment No 41.
It is a matter of urgency that the staff of the inter-service group to be strengthened quickly at the heart of the Secretary-General of the Commission, so that all the proposed acts of general scope can be accompanied, during its examination by the College, in accordance with paragraph 299 of Article, for a detailed impact statement.
From the point of view of the Committee on legal Affairs and the Internal market, I want to stress is that, in fact, we can only deal with as what it is like.
Given the importance of fisheries for the outermost regions, I cannot but be source.
So far, since under the chairmanship of Delors set up an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long and fruitful way and who has chaired the Group I must express the deep appreciation of the European outermost regions.
In fact although before the Treaty of Rome referred to the French overseas departments, it was not until 1989 and the programmes of specific actions linked to remoteness and insularity, the famous POSEI, so that the European Union to be finally the permanence and combination of the structural problems of the outermost regions forming the basis of a specific treatment with regard to the other regions of the Community.
I have no doubt that the proposals that the Commission ask the Council will bear the stamp of these qualities.
This question is becoming more and more important as we move towards the eastward enlargement of the EU.
And it should be noted that this right to difference is no more than a product of the principle of equality, which also requires that this is a different way what is different.
This is a document that my staff and I believe rich in ideas and does not shirk any of the issues raised by the Community outermost regions.
Your report, Mrs Sudre, rightly stresses the need for action in time, a moment ago.
With regard to the relaunch of the diversification of the economy, we have made progress in a number of essential areas.
It is important now that within the framework of the DOCUPS a large number of projects, but, at the same time to this action on the ground we must reflect deeply access on the specific needs of each of these outermost regions of the information society.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Of course I will report to the President of your speech.
I am concerned about the possibility of a general failure of many voting arrangements, which would question the decisions adopted by the House.
This Food Authority and the legislative proposals that we propose, intended to guarantee food safety, are going to have the support of this Parliament, Commissioner.
Its main task is to provide scientific advice, as the debate on the food safety must also be credible.
Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive contribution and their willingness to take into account the opinion of the other committees.
It is important to apply the precautionary principle when we are faced with a possible risk.
On the controversial issue of how far we should go in regard to enable it to examine the nutrition, and even to put forward recommendations and be consulted by those whose main task is the risk management, we have also said that in the field of security, the issues should at least be subject to the opinion and the advice of the food authority.
A central idea is to ensure the survival of the rich heritage traditions.
It is not the laws and regulations which form the basis for this respectability, but the integrity, the academic high quality, independence, the sense of responsibility, transparency and comprehensibility.
Certainly, it is essential to assume a good scientific knowledge, in order to assess the risks linked to the food chain, from farm to table.
Mr President, it is clear that there is a considerable enthusiasm for the creation of a European food safety Agency, as our rapporteur prefers to denominarla.
Given that the programme of the WHO continues to have the funds and the necessary support, it seems that there is absolutely no need for yet another agency, especially with such a limited scope such as the 15 Member States of the European Union.
Food safety is the essential precondition for the consumer as consumers want to be able to obtain and that we have to deal with us.
If we do not get a new framework directive many aspects relating to food safety will only be a dead letter.
Consequently, we need to change the EU Treaty in such a way that gives the Commission power to implement sanctions in the food field, in the same way as today is competition.
Support for all the actors who support the strategy "for all food" and working in the field political, administrative or any other.
I do not share these words, because we know that the man is not only body.
This must be the hard core of coordination of the network of national agencies which, in turn, will have to implement and coordinate a network of centres of excellence food safety at regional level.
I therefore believe that the amendment 11 and amendment No 17 are perfectly compatible.
The reform of the European Union' s food laws will take place at the level of the European Union.
The report does not many proposals for amendments, but is limited to emphasise certain issues.
And I am glad that it is very clearly stated in the report.
However, the creation of a European Food Safety Authority is very positive.
It is to be hoped that all these criteria are met for the good of the citizens of the Union as a whole.
I believe that we need to establish certain temporary margins in which the European Commission must be informed in cases of justified concern.
The EU must have the highest possible levels of food security for its citizens.
The Commission is now proposing the creation of a European Food Authority.
I fear that Europe will run the risk of afford to a inflated apparatus officials who is unable to act.
As we are creating new levels of bureaucracy and use more money, it is becoming more and less what we get in return.
Prevent similar work or parallel in a number of institutions.
There are, however, to prevent, under the debate on the White Paper, increase public the fear of a bureaucratic Europe that has an impact on the quality of the products without punished effectively fraud that threaten the health of consumers.
As you know, the Commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety.
The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the global principles and objectives of food legislation, which will provide the framework for future health protection measures in food.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Turning now to our report, I welcome the Commission' s proposal, and I have to say that the committees on Foreign Affairs and development have worked hard to improve it further, if possible, especially in a number of points.
As has been said very explicit and clear Mrs Bonino, with the Commission' s proposal for a regulation has been given a new step forward.
The Commission' s proposal for a regulation is too vague.
It is necessary for the allocation for the elimination of mines is organised in a reasonable way and to promote research to carry out work of detection and disposal, to instruments that can be used in a simple way on the ground to provide aid in the developing countries.
Over the last eight years, we have contributed more than EUR 200 million from the Community budget to the fight against landmines.
But we cannot penalise those who have a bad government.
First of all, as I have already mentioned, I believe that it would be a mistake, well-intentioned, but counterproductive, to impose the accession to the Ottawa Convention as a prerequisite for Community assistance to mine action.
I cannot accept amendment No 19.
Secondly, the international community must improve the coordination of their efforts, as well as at global level and in particular, in the countries concerned.
Mr President, the group of the Party of European Socialists agrees with the pride that Mr Van Orden has just expressed with regard to the role played by the European Union.
Consider the Soviet toy bombs in Afghanistan!
Thank you for a good report.
Mr President, the Cambodians call to the sentinels mines eternal.
In the face of the uniformed people have a justified mistrust built up over many years of war.
Mr President, I am delighted that has finally European legislation, in the form of a regulation on anti-personnel mines and that we have a good report by Mrs Bonino on it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very sad.
It is not by chance that mines are, above all, in areas in crisis, that is to say, in areas in which could have been taken on other initiatives in order to overcome this crisis.
Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning signal of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
It is tragic that the civilian population who suffer as a result of the ineptitude of their leaders.
Let me, ladies and gentlemen, welcome them on behalf of our institution, with which their country is privileged relations within the framework of our common project of building an area of prosperity, security and peace in the Mediterranean basin.
All the mines are stored.
Mr President, as I agree with almost everything that my colleagues have said before, I am not going to repeat. I waive my speaking time.
The idea that you have the open cooperation is fall into the institutional system dominated by the officials of the Commission.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to the people who will be affected.
But as essential amendments of the group of the European People' s Party have to obtain a considerable majority, I voted in favour of the report.
Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the resolution on the results of the informal European Council in Biarritz for two types of reasons: firstly, because I have had the opportunity to vote by roll call for separate paragraphs 2 and 5, which has allowed me to express my outright opposition to both.
In other words, around the table of the common European home, some would à la carte and others the minimum menu.
And the democratic control must not miss, but we are not antojaba that the list of these rights and its inclusion in the Treaties, it was the European Union' s number one problem.
There has been talk of referendums and the amendments tabled to this report relating to these referendums.
In the elections to the European Parliament in 1999 was involved only 40% of the electorate, without regard to the countries in which there is a vote compulsory and those in the national elections that were carried out at the same time.
In order to achieve the desirable objective of a European Constitution, it is unwise to impose rigid models and methodologies, which would prevent inevitably achieving the desired objective.
A real social constitution should levelling upwards the best gains for the world of work, of women, immigrants and the citizens.
Even without denying a laudable intention to strengthen clarification and deepening of the European Union, as well as a simplification of the texts necessary for the proximity of its operation in relation to the citizens, I did not vote in favour.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities
I believe that it is essential that the EU Charter of human rights involves the signing of the Convention on Human Rights of the European Council.
Gil-Robles I aid, which proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas some Member States of the European Union agree on a joint action.
Allow the decisions on increasing number of important issues are taken by a qualified majority runs counter to the fundamental democratic rules.
Today is to prevent the flexibility of closer cooperation, and it is bound to lose, also in this case.
This report aims to give concrete expression to the position in this respect Parliament (Resolution of 13 April 2000).
- (SV) in general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is in favour.
The British labour Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists we welcome the adoption of its contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on closer cooperation, but does not support all the details.
These islands must be active part of the European Union that I hope that the become a paradise for tourists and a paradise for their people.
In the Middle Ages these regions and their inhabitants do not belong to Europe, or even now be regarded as genuinely European.
In fact, the special features of these regions, in general due to the island and the remoteness from the continent of Europe, but also to the chronic dependence on a single production or a few, require specific measures appropriate to overcome those limitations.
Mr President, I would like to apologise for omit the Presidency and the interpreters listening to my last explanation of vote and, in particular, I would like to express my solidarity with the translators of our explanations of vote, as far as I am concerned Mrs
It is very clear that the aim of the agency is channel the powers of national defence, or paralizarlos, to put them at the service of the objectives of the Commission.
That does not mean that the Commission and Parliament denominen this agency "European authority" name totally contrary to the philosophy which is based.
That is not what we proposed by the Bowis report, which gives the impression that the food safety is considered primarily as a new pretext to feed the well-known process of strengthening the powers of the Commission, to the detriment of the national bodies and bodies to protect the safety of the citizens.
For this reason, I believe that this statement I would condemn these acts unspeakable on behalf of our European Parliament has always advocated the respect for religious freedom and tolerance between all their communities.
Madam President, I understand the objections made by the rapporteur, but on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and rural development not only vote on issues of money, but will be voting on in a particular direction.
I should like to ask your support to make the necessary adjustments in the A-206 line on the acquisition of property, depending on what amendments are adopted, in order not traspasemos our own limit of 20% of the total administrative expenditure.
Before the vote on Amendment 929
Section VI - economic and Social Committee
Report (A5-0276/2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing additional technical measures to rebuild stocks of cod in the Irish sea (ICES Division VIIa) (COM(2000)0190 - C5-0219/2000 - 2000/0071(CNS))
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The export subsidies they are dump the world market with food surpluses of the Union, which entails serious disadvantages for the food industry in many developing countries.
In order to achieve resources to increase aid to the Balkans, the Member States must make changes to the current budget.
However, Parliament has succeeded in introducing important priorities, such as greater concern for the fight against unemployment and poverty, many environmental issues and equal opportunities, and so on, and we have voted against the Members attacks against the LIFE programme and the lobby European women.
- (SV) in relation to the reimbursement of expenses transfer of the Members of the European Parliament, we have our view that compensation should only cover the real costs incurred by journeys undertaken in the carrying out of office.
I assume that - and I hope that the Commission provide solutions in a constructive spirit, we will be undertaking the years 2002 to 2005 with a transitional provision.
- (DE) with the aim of, above all, a muzzle proper European parliaments, the European Commission, in its regulatory fury and liberalisation, has put forward a proposal for a regulation directly applicable, rather than a directive, which has to be a painful íter procedural through Parliament and the Council of Ministers to enter into force on 31 December 2000.
We support in this way the reform efforts of the Commission and we are opposed to continue to favour this sector.
This has done very much depend on loans.
Nicholson report (A-0276/2000)
It is important to ensure that the aid should not be used for military purposes.
Our view is always that the reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases must be achieved mainly at a cost made by the real pollutants (That is to say, the major industries), to the detriment of their profits.
Moreira Da Silva Report (A5-0271/2000)
We should spend this money concordando and coordinating the expenditure on research policy in all the Member States of the European Union.
It is a good thing that we can know, as a precautionary measure, the truth about these substances.
The voting period is over.
This will replace the national format that is now being used everywhere.
The loss of data for the statistics relating to the balance of payments is minimal.
As surprise, surprise, the main affected are small and medium-sized enterprises.
For years we have been calling for a harmonisation of efforts, because, at the end of the day, it is possible to establish a rapid system, safe and cheap.
In my opinion, this report is of the utmost importance to integrate effectively to our citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro zone and increase the acceptance of the economic and monetary union.
There must be no obstacles or major differences when there is a free movement of capital with a single currency.
The European Parliament and the Commission, however, attach great importance.
I support the policy to two gangs that the rapporteur wants to encourage banks lazy to act.
Radwan and Mrs Peijs on behalf of the Group of the Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which requires the adoption of measures before the end of next year and, preferably, the establishment of these standards before they come into circulation of euro notes and coins.
The proposal we are presenting Mrs Peijs and I is a step in the direction that lay banks in a Bureau not to make concessions, because we cannot increase the political pressure.
After all, if the system for the implementation of the cross-border payments remains as expensive as it is today, the credibility of the new system of coins and notes will be called into question.
We believe that this form of collection of statistical data on the system of payments within the Union is a relic of the past; in a single integrated area and are to be justified, and that is an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the market.
To hear the speeches of some of my colleagues in the committees, those who have been here longer than I, I had the impression that the exercise of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, which this Parliament is for the fourth time, falls into this category.
Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance the support that will bring to my report.
If we reject this political action at European level, must then be more opportunities for the regions.
SMEs are the main source of employment, both in terms of its quality and its quantity. play an essential role in social cohesion and to town and country planning.
The care with proposals made by the study and the concertation which has pursued with many interested parties have been a triumph for better define and optimise the establishment of this programme.
Thirdly, we must look for European added value.
It follows that small and medium-sized enterprises can only go well if the unemployment rate is reduced and the public authorities at all levels are not debt and have sufficient resources to send to the budgets of investment.
Businesses need clarity.
In particular, if an employer individual or a company with 250 employees has a project, cannot be the only way to receive funding collateral security of 120%, but must also be possible to receive funding for which have only a good idea.
The Member States, and even the regional or local authorities already behave like real financial bombs, which drenan taxpayers' money, that is to say sums held to the majority of the population, including the most disadvantaged, and redirected to big business and therefore to their owners and shareholders.
The breeding ground for small and medium-sized enterprises includes thousands of fragile attempts to feed human potential and big business ideas.
Of the measures we have proposed here, which I would like to address the Commissioner is to facilitate and speed up the access to aid and information for the people who addressed these companies can use them effectively.
All of them will be high in the multiannual programme.
Finally, I welcome the idea of work an annual meeting to carry out an assessment of the introduction of the programme.
The recent incidents at the expense of the Greek minority in Himarë are the urgent need to promote democratisation measures, strengthening of the institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
A considerable number of Albanians leave their land by the uncertainty that prevails in their own country, for the social difficulties, for their social and family structures premodernas.
We need particular preventive measures designed to Albania that contribute to the construction or reconstruction of the country, in order to make possible a dignified life in the region.
That is how are of a body to the other documents and the European Commission, for example, is refusing to publish the report on, among other things, the customs Assistance Mission (CAM), drawn up by the Albanians.
Let us look at the truth as it is.
Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the point of broad and comprehensive which demonstrates its report.
This is a matter of the utmost importance, created under the influence of factors historical, social, political and economic.
We will never know the real number of deaths.
The common commercial activities engage the people in a peaceful manner.
What, on the other hand, I find it unacceptable in this report, and I say this quite frankly, that is confused with the cause, that is to say, has confused the issue procedure balanced visa and, therefore, the possibility of emigrate, to the cause of illegal immigration.
The major institutional reforms arising from the Treaty of Amsterdam have influenced the management of the issues of asylum and immigration.
Thirdly and lastly, the action plan and its means of implementation must be assessed by areas.
But, of course, this also requires us to request we do not throw the baby out with the bathwater in the volume of Community standards.
Precisely now has to be emphasised the strength of the Community action.
I also that the changes to the proposals on codification of European legislation in force are carried out by the inclusion of amendments in the directive or regulations in force.
Understood with property, the principle of subsidiarity is in two directions: the decision-making at the lowest possible level, and the recognition that the lowest possible level can be, in fact, a very high level, when there is general goods at stake that will be lost unless that are protected in the same terms everywhere.
The report is a clear and concise draft model and I hope that colleagues will take with the seriousness it deserves.
The report of the Committee on legal Affairs and the Internal market did not receive the enthusiasm of its members.
That is why I referred in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina has just to prove with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
Therefore, some aspects of the report I produced little enthusiasm, because I would have liked to have seen a report "comunitarizante" with regard to the internal market and, above all, on this point, of course, are not wind blowing in the report.
The important thing for the institutions of the EU is that we have a strong commitment to raise the quality of legislation, especially with regard to subsidiarity.
The debate is closed.
The maintenance of this situation could have a negative effect on the acceptance and public opinion about the euro.
Mr President, in the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and home affairs prepare carefully the Karamanou report.
However, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to take our oral question and this debate to express on both sides - because both is our motion for a resolution, and I would like to do so with a great deal of peace, a few comments.
There is demand for the peoples of the Union that we represent here.
But, as has been a lot of water under the bridge, the agreement has prescribed and has not been replaced.
I can understand the reasons for the Commissioner, but I cannot understand the Director-General.
We could say that, months after the mooring services, we are still paying the previous agreement and the last of the previous one.
Mr President, a year ago we had a similar debate and the fact that it has taken a year to start the negotiations highlights the difficulty of finding fishing grounds for the EU' s enormous fleets.
In the second agreement, things were very clear.
But we must also understand that nothing is eternal, not even the fish stocks.
That is why I want particularly to make it clear that if something has been highlighted the PPE-DE Group is not only to support, defend and lead to the fisheries agreements, but to encourage strongly its extension.
Thirdly, since the fisheries agreement is interrupted, has continued the exploitation of the Sahara fishing ground for Community and non-Community fleets that are not subject to the control of the Commission and the Member States, is above all an important fleet in the Netherlands.
I understand that, because these fisheries represented a source of income and work for a poor region in relation to the rest of Europe.
Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that at the end of the month concludes the temporary aid paid to the fishermen and shipowners to compensate for this year staging posts, which is an intolerable situation, given that all prefer to work to aid.
This parliamentary supporter of Andalusian autonomy has been in existence for a year now negotiating and by proposing initiatives by the corridors, by the offices, in the Committee on Fisheries and the hearings with the Commissioner to take account of the especialísima character of the Andalusian fishing fleet which fishes in Morocco.
Spain has developed in a remarkable way the most difficult neighbourhood relationship that there has been repeatedly raised in history between Europe and North Africa, between Spain and Morocco.
As a Member of Parliament Spanish and Andalusian, I support the right of thousands of Andalusian and Spanish families to maintain and defend, and to defend in this Parliament, their jobs, which are in danger for almost a year.
We shall now move to the vote.
A history of almost years full of consuelos since the offices, delaying tactics, hopes, need staff also placebos for those affected, persistent defence of old rights in relation to the citizens looking for something else that their rights.
As you know, the issue is a very complex and affects some people who work in more than Italian universities.
If we reform and change the Italian legal system, as has been the case for the university staff, we do not believe that the Commission will be able to intervene as soon as all European citizens enjoy equal access to all the professional categories.
The injustice is that two people doing the same work, working together, they do so, however, with different salaries and under different conditions.
Worst of all, in my view, is to have to inform you that a favourable judgment may not be more than a few words reassuring and will not be a real change in their lives.
I would remind the Commission that I hope to respond to what the judgment of the Court, in the case Allué, expressed as follows: "by this dictates that is contrary to Article 48 (2) of the EC Treaty, that the law of a Member State only in any case the duration of the contracts of foreign language assistants to one year, with the possibility of renewal, if in principle this limit does not apply to other teachers" .
Well, I believe that these issues are at the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
We still have jobs, as today has been in this discussion, too many obstacles, too many obstacles to this internal market, and not just in this case.
The debate is closed.
(The President cut the speaker off)
And I propose a minute of respect.
Are there any comments?
I support the proposal put forward by Mr Ceyhun, and I would be very grateful if the Council could clarify if there is real intentions to present a new proposal on this matter.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group considers important this event which we do not think would receive appropriate treatment in the form of a matter of urgency.
Galeote have just set out. I have the impression that you at the end of this debate to these reasons, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understood him correctly.
Madam President, for some time we are discussing in this Parliament the issue of the sanctions on Iraq.
It is a matter of urgency that we hold a debate before the introduction of the amendment proposed by the British authorities, and that the Commission will send a clear signal what the rules must be observed in this respect.
(A5-0314/2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the area of the fight against organised crime, money laundering products infringements and financial crime C5-0394/2000.
The statements must be followed by practical measures taken to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime.
The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot remain in the hands of a specialised agency, subject to only control of the national governments.
On the other hand, Article 8 of the draft convention just to essential interests the grounds for refusing assistance which could invoke the rule required.
To begin with, I would like to congratulate Mr Marinho on the work he has done and I would like to say that, in fact, attempts to combat organised crime must be given support and attention.
Trace, pursue, condemn the laundering of dirty money terrorists and the arms and drugs traffickers, of course it does!
Our task is to proceed to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of organized crime.
All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
In my opinion, the establishment of these initiatives is progressing in a way which can ignore the protection provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
However, in reality, all this is not so easy.
Finally, Mr President, the group of the European People' s Party supports the compromise amendment which we have reached with Mrs Roure on the activities of the lawyers.
The second measure, the second instrument, is harmonisation.
This is a Portuguese initiative which several previous speakers have already praised.
And that was the subject of the joint meeting of the justice and Home Affairs Council and the ECOFIN Council of 17 October.
The best way to strengthen parliamentary control and judicial control of Europol is the full integration of the Europol Convention in the legal framework of the European Union.
A step in the right direction that the European Parliament is trying to give for a long time is the creation of a provisional Judicial Cooperation Unit.
This is the sense of guarantees, that is to say, make progress this aspect of the freedoms.
The European Parliament is the Community supranational body able to establish this relationship, and this speech I propose therefore to support this right to support our rapporteur
Only when the institutional model and the rules which will govern the European area of justice clarified, it will be possible for the citizens and Parliament give its opinion on each of the measures proposed by the Council.
For this reason, Europol is a logical step in the process to provide the citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice, by strengthening the fight against organised crime.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt is to be congratulated on the excellent report he has presented, in line with one of the decisions taken at the Tampere Council.
But given that Eurojust, there is the coordination of the tax and national judges in the fight against all forms of serious crime - and in this I agree with the broad approach of the rapporteur - the concept: it is not only cooperation purely transnational crime, also refers to cooperation in the fight against the criminal activities.
We will have the opportunity, as from 1 January 2001, go in the provisional unit, but the Commission wants to hold a debate on what should be the final unity of Eurojust.
Each part had warmly for your position, I think, without falling into rigid confrontations.
The problems encountered in expenditure had not too to the Committee on Fisheries, although gave more attention to other matters.
It is totally unacceptable that we do not have clear objectives and we can measure the results, which would not in any other institution.
My second point is that in the field of the hierarchy in the planning power of payments has been come here to intersections unacceptable, Commissioner.
I would like to stress that played a positive role for a number of problems.
It is obvious that this work in consortium does not create any division in the joint financial responsibility.
We have therefore really acted to recover EUR 3.4 million, and it is fair to say that we have achieved in more than 90%.
Are there any comments?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following nine months of work and long wrangling in search of a consensus, we now have on the table a draft Charter of fundamental rights.
I hope that, even if today is limited to vote in favour of this Charter, this House will make it clear indubitablemente in the next few weeks which calls on the Council the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
This position is unites, as you know, adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Biarritz in which they themselves adopted unanimously and without reservation, the Charter and, therefore, I can only invite you, on behalf of the Council, to follow this position, but by making them some arguments.
But above all it is because of the strength of its content and the Charter, I am sure, will time.
For its part, the European Trade Union Confederation has been able to condemn what it considers gaps, such as the lack of reference to the right to a minimum wage, for example.
However, a number of people and, in particular, the members of the European Parliament, have proposed to include an explicit reference to the Charter of fundamental rights in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, which refers to the Convention on Human Rights.
Our Group unanimously supports the Charter with the single exception of the British delegation.
The Group of the European people' s Party calls in its entirety and unanimously that the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the Treaties as soon as possible, so that has the force of law directly to the people of the European Union.
They have shown that it is possible to deal with the European affairs in a new way and exemplary, much better than the Intergovernmental Conference, given its democratic and open, with the greatest transparency and that makes the participation of the citizens.
The right to health, social security, housing, minimum wage are non-existent or only the order of solidarity.
Fourthly, the Charter - and this seems to me to be particularly important, based on the principle of the indivisibility of human rights of citizenship and of a political nature and the fundamental rights of social order.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Charter is simply the umpteenth demonstration of the capacity of the Union and of our Member States to increase the ending instead with lame texts, the declarations of intent.
The representative of the Commission in the Convention in Turin gives legal significance to the document.
After the time of the market, when the Europe of rights is concerned, it is perhaps finally. the concept of citizenship in the European Union is a relatively new concept.
The Charter is drafted, in fact, as a text that can have a binding value.
At the same time I would like to point out with great pride that a representative of my group in my own country, Gunnar Jansson, had an important role in the development of this Charter.
As I said last night - and I will say today - throughout this Union there are many shortcomings in this respect and sometimes our impatience to develop the judicial and police cooperation, overlook the importance of ensuring that the innocent are not passive victims, collateral damage of a war against crime.
Madam President, the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the Charter of fundamental rights is based on the same ambiguity that the work of the House.
The Italian Constitution provides for, for example, the limit of good conduct; the Convention provides for the limit of the rights of the other, of public order.
Mr President, today in the vote on the 12 we will complete a process that began in 1984 when this Parliament approved the draft Treaty of the European Union, which was the request for a bill of rights, a process that we continue in 1989 with the resolution De Gucht.
The will have effects. the Charter will be whether or not in the Treaty.
We must welcome and not with fear, as Mr Bondi seems to believe.
It seems that the century ends, with all their struggles for the emancipation of the disadvantaged social classes, has been in vain and has not taught us nothing.
The Charter full a vacuum in Community law and will strengthen the protection of individuals with regard to the atrocities of the European Police authorities to combat fraud and the authorities that are responsible for competition.
I do not understand the dissent who the motivates because the Charter does not cover everything that I would like to see included.
Mr President, I will continue where it was Mr Gahrton.
The third point I should like to make relates to the rights of citizens of third countries.
The Council of Europe, as well as with the Court of Human Rights, a great deal of experience in these forms of control, which we can use.
In view of the text of the Charter that today we are going to adopt, I hope that by a large majority - it is clear that with our Charter we are going to achieve a more comprehensive and more up-to-date protection of the fundamental rights which would have been the accession to the European Convention for the protection of human rights.
That is why it is necessary to go further.
I think it is important to bear this in mind if we want to achieve the necessary support of the citizens of Europe to the Charter.
After its adoption by this Parliament, the Charter of Fundamental rights will be my analysis guide for this report and as far as my personal means and intellectuals and the means in terms of staff to provide you will allow me, I should like to make an analysis right by law, country by country of respect for the Charter in the fifteen countries of the Union.
- (FR) Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission would like, first of all, to join the intentions of the Moscovici president, and to highlight the most important contribution that the members of the European Parliament have contributed to the debate, to the Convention, in particular the role that Mr Méndez de Vigo has played in the Convention Praesidium for the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental rights.
I do not refer only to some of the most salient points of this debate: firstly, Mr.
The Convention has chosen to include fundamental rights inspired by the various instruments of the Council of Europe, in the treaties, in the constitutions of the Member States.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
In the current state of affairs, it is up to Parliament to say to the Turkish people that, at the moment, there are three conditions for accession.
As a result, the European Investment Bank is one of the last ports of refuge activities bank in the world, not tarnish the waves of the social debate.
That is why what I have taken careful note of the suggestions put forward by Mr Morillon on the preconditions to the accession of Turkey and deserve the greatest interest.
I am pleased to announce that the Turkish Government has accepted in the meantime the partnership as a basis for our future cooperation, so that we can hope that we will achieve precisely what we set out, which is support with our policy to the forces of reform in Turkey give new impetus to the process of reform and to do so progress with a view to the desired accession to the European Union.
The most important thing for me is that on the basis of Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey' s accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to the forces of the country and promote their development.
This text is waiting for its opinion.
What is now give impetus necessary in the context of a future accession.
However, I would urge Turkey - I do not know what the outcome of the vote - to take this issue seriously.
The European Parliament will play its role in the promotion of relations with the political parties, NGOs and the press, in addition to develop their sensitive and sometimes tirante relationship with the grand National Assembly.
Mr Morillon, your report is, in my view, absolutely realistic and responsible.
During his visit to Turkey in March at least mentioned by name the problem of the Kurdish people, as well as today.
That Europeans will lead to the Turks, and I quote, "to a radical change in their habits and mentality" at the same time it reveals a naïve and sufficient.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing today fills me with concern.
Recommendation (A5-0325/2000) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Committee on constitutional Affairs, on the adoption of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (4487/1/00 - C5-0570/2000 - 2000/2233 (AVC))
However, in the future we are going to discuss the computer power, we will have to realise that there is a need for a wider control and, therefore, more garantizador of the individual.
Recommendation Duff/Voggenhuber (A5-0325/2000)
We would point out proposed an indicative:
The rights laid down in the Charter are already part of the national constitutions and are defended by the national parliaments, close to the people and their cultures.
For example, Article 19-1, which mentions that: "prohibit collective expulsions" , does not specify that the ban can be suspended in the event of war or serious disruption of public order.
We are going to give a brief explanation of these three objections in order.
The right of a government to ignore arbitrarily its constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny.
But, I repeat today, we have every reason to be proud of the conditions under which we have completed this important stage for Europe.
A society that only aware of rights, and not homework becomes a selfish society.
It is our priority fight to the statement of the fundamental rights enshrined in political elections.
Despite the fact that the method of the Convention is interesting and fruitful to establish a text, looking for a broad compromise, there is no justification for are deprived of the European Parliament, which embodies the representation of the people of Europe, the possibility of amending, to enrich the text.
This Charter must be improved, and our Parliament must propose a strategy to update and enrichment.
Therefore, the Charter should not be to decide and to proclaim at the Nice Council, but that this summit to promote a European debate on it.
Fortunately, the predominant trend of the national governments seems to indicate the path of common sense, that is to say, the acceptance of the Charter with a purely political scope and non-binding.
Created as "Assembly" by the Cologne Summit, autoproclamó "Convention" , a name that unfortunately recalls to 1793 and the terrorist implications of the French Revolution put into practise by another convention.
In return, the method used, the exclusions proclaimed and the ambiguity surrounding the very nature of this text cast a rather harsh light on the new efervescencias totalitarian operating in the very heart of the process of European integration.
Fortunately, the European Parliament has not yet in this field more than an advisory role, pending a full implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but is the way to do so in the wrong direction, slowing down the right decisions.
On the other hand, there are discrepancies in the procedure.
A century ago they were and then to ensure that would be rolled back, is now in force.
The last thing we want is for the single market will enable criminals in the single market by the back door and unseen.
And we also support the future creation of a convention which will facilitate the fight against organised crime and money laundering, as well as the various measures proposed in order to achieve these ends.
In fact, establishing a provisional unit, made up of a representative of the judges or the police of a judge activity in our fifteen Member States.
Mr President, as a member of the EU-Turkey joint Parliamentary Committee, I offer a intense attention to the draft accession of Turkey.
The role of Turkey in Cyprus is not acceptable.
However, we support the rapporteur' s criticism that there is a need for a assessment on the granting of loans from the EIB and to the fact that there are shortcomings in matters of transparency and democratic control in the Bank' s activities.
Turkey, with all its differentiation, has always been and continues to be an integral part of the European reality.
Turkey' s accession to the European Union is now more than ever on an issue on the agenda.
Mr Morillon says that Turkey must take care not to see the European Union as a "exclusive Christian club" that it wishes to exclude it.
Turkey will be a fully democratic country when will learn to live with its past, like Germany democratic learned to live with their own and we would also ask it.
As the authorities in Ankara have understood that the status quo is unacceptable for Europe and the rest of the world, it will be possible to make significant progress: the island can be reunited and tomorrow will provide a fair, lasting and global regulation in accordance with international law.
Really, why not included in the report of the European Commission?
This is the balanced framework in which we will have to continue resolutely with our action in order to promote the rapprochement between the Union and Turkey.
If we are dealing with the Armenian issue in the context of the accession to the EU - and I would ask you to listen to what I say: if we are dealing with the Armenian issue in the context of the accession to the EU, the draft which we are debating today will not start; it is as simple as that.
Moreover, it is also the reason for our insistence on to make an assessment of the first five years of implementation of the Barcelona process, so that in Marseilles, in fact, we are in a position to establish the necessary guidelines.
However, we have managed to keep the dialogue, and sometimes on sensitive issues: stability, terrorism, migration, human rights, for example.
In addition, the Council has made an effort, especially since 1995, provide the most important means Mediterranean, to the extent of the challenges of the partnership.
This is, in fact, an extremely important issue and I would like to speak in my capacity as European.
Mr President, as you know, in English it is said that when the star does not appear in a role, it is as a representation of Hamlet, the first death knell.
We want to see a pooling of resources of policies on issues relating to the single market and agree to introduce the accumulation of origin together with the regional free trade agreements so that all the partners have free trade relations and adopt the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
We have learned with satisfaction that the Commission is prepared to give new impetus to the Barcelona process.
I have highlighted these aspects because in them we need to find the key to relaunch the process, and to this we must add the enlargement of the political agenda of Barcelona.
Therefore, must be our priority to ensure peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we must make every effort for the sake of this cooperation and to ensure that the commitments are implemented effectively, on the basis of, shall we say, selfish generosity of the European Union.
These are important and specific questions that I would like to raise, and I would like to thank Mr Brok which has authorised this debate just before the Presidency and the Commission would be able to discuss these issues.
The world is going towards a unstoppable globalisation and in this context, it is necessary to be organised in large blocs to act as protagonists in the great stage of global competition.
It is disappointing that the Mediterranean countries have asked for only just a quarter of the EUR 4,700 million been earmarked for the MEDA I programme, which expired in 1999.
For this is a good proposal for a new impetus that the Commission has done and fully agree with the two priorities that Mr Patten has set in their speeches and reiterated this afternoon.
It is a wake-up call for the European Union to play a more active role in the Mediterranean area that historic and culturally enriched and engrandeció our European continent.
However, much more serious, at the same time that, in this Chamber we exchange calmly sometimes divergent views, are still killing more Palestinians.
Aid for reconstruction
If not, however, we provide in December the means for implementing this regulation, today we have had a debate devoid of content.
It is complicated procedures, but we must not and we want to turn a blind eye, and I hope that the Member States do not do so, to the role they have played in this.
The media in the region have been responsible many times of the tragedy that has experienced and resources are needed completely free and to act in accordance with the rules that exist in our democracies.
Also, I am fortunate because I believe that Parliament has succeeded in achieving to return to a situation which originally was not as good as a result of that has been a continuous pressure.
I repeat once more: it is absolutely essential avoid unnecessary costs in unnecessary meetings.
However, we must not look only in Kosovo.
It is also unfortunate that a number of programmes have been in the so-called reserve, "opførselsreserven" .
In Feira, recognised the quality of potential candidates for accession to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process.
I reiterate the main priorities allocated to the CARDS programme: the institutional strengthening democracy and the rule of law, economic development and reconstruction, regional cooperation.
The European Union was right to react positively to the President Kostuniça access to power.
On 6 November was carried out an initial examination.
What initiatives will the Council take, as requested by the European Parliament in its resolution of 16 March 2000, in order to play a more active role in order to ensure the total and absolute application of the UN peace plan?
How to achieve this new impetus without the resolution of this conflict, you know the close links between the European Union and Morocco, and especially between France and Morocco.
I can only draw your attention to the fact that France and Germany - here I am speaking as President-in-Office of the Council - mentioned these matters in the course of a bilateral Summit in Vittel, last week, and decided to form a working party in order to remedy the problem.
At the same time, the Union continues to provide an important material aid to these two countries, for the intermediary of its various programmes, especially TACIS.
The honourable Member' s question gives, therefore, the Presidency the opportunity to dispel some confusion.
And I would add a further clarification: it is particularly in these two texts, to strengthen the criminal framework for combating the organised networks of smugglers.
In the report that the Council of Ministers Turkish adopted on 21 September as reform programme, on the part of the legislative amendments several projects: included on the Civil Code measures to strengthen the effective equality of men and women in the areas socioeducativos; better fight against violence family; better condemn the violence through the creation of specialised judges in the field of the family and, finally, a ban on the possibility of a reduced penalties for crime of honour.
Therefore, the Presidency does not have to give an answer on this point.
Next week, there will be a meeting of the European Conference, my invitation, in France, in other words with the candidate countries, and I announced that is Mrs
Do you think that the model that has been followed in the case of Austria, that is, the bilateral decisions majority, could be used in the future as an instrument for decisions outside of the European institutions and to create a new institution or a new group, in order to be able to get round the unanimity rule in the Council?
Cem. the terms of this reply were communicated to all the Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici, which says that in order to make progress in the partnership between Turkey and the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
It must be borne in mind that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than just a fisheries agreement and, as he knows, if this agreement is not reached, bearing in mind what this means, this could hide a deterioration in relations between the European Union and Morocco.
That is why, I have to say that I am sceptical on the result.
With regard to the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, it should be noted that this principle should allow the strengthening of cooperation between the Member States, but also the protection of the rights of the people.
The supplementary questions have to be other Members.
On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication that d adopted on 4 October 2000 on the European Union' s oil supply, points out that wants to present at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources should help to strengthen the energy efficiency, especially in buildings and Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
It is in this spirit, we, on the occasion of the vote on the resolution on the embargo, within the framework of the third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly on 9 November, call on the Cuban authorities to cooperate fully with the international organisations defending human rights.
It is, therefore, to NATO measures it considers necessary so that cannot happen again.
(The sitting was suspended at 18.55 p.m. and resumed at 21.00 p.m.)
When one offers money is without doubt the privilege to establish clearly the political objectives, and that is what the Commissioner has been doing.
This presence can give a global policy that we perspective.
If we look at the region as a region of virtual political powers abuse we shall be committing a mistake.
Parliament must be consulted and informed on a regular basis, and this is the second request which the rapporteurs and all of us we will have to support.
The Heads of Government have confirmed the Union' s determination to support this process with technical and economic aid.
It was Parliament who supported the proposal of the Commission to create the European Agency for Reconstruction.
As the House knows, we do not believe necessary to make an explicit reference to this in the regulation, despite the eloquence of Mr.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 noon.
The leaders agreed to a 2000 extended and updated framework of cooperation between Asia and Europe which is the work programme for the next decade.
In my opinion these issues remind us of the important role of Europe in Asia, not only in economic and commercial terms, although it has to be said that one of the reasons for the recovery of Asia is that we have kept our word to maintain open our markets to the Asian exports over the last two years.
I believe that we have made an excellent political declaration, but some problems remain to be solved.
We know that the Commission takes very seriously the ASEM and we fully support this institution as far as that is concerned.
There is a need to improve the existing mechanisms in the transposition of Community law, in order to increase legal certainty and overcome their slow.
That is why should promote the creation of new regional organisations, especially where there is Community presence, as in the case of the Western Pacific and the South Pacific.
This will make a real contribution to the sustainable fisheries are.
I believe that the future of the fishing in international waters depends on these organisations and all the efforts of the Commission, Commissioner, there are few. to defend the position of the United Nations, both in the 1982 Convention and in New York, to which reference has been made here, we must have a very active presence in these organisations for responsible fishing.
That is why I believe that the Commission has a very important role to encourage fishermen to be at the forefront, cooperate with it and propose a solution with which we are all agreed.
In addition, the Commission must take on all kinds of tasks in connection with the negotiations that have to be carried out in the context of the regional fisheries organisations.
Mr President, I have the same problem as Nicholson, but it is even more serious in my case.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions recommended by the Committee on Agriculture and rural development.
Sometimes we have to ask ourselves to what extent the crisis cyclical market is not caused by the speculative action of these business structures, that this will be ensuring the control of the sector on the basis of their interests.
The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot' s report is, in my view, contrary to all reason in recent years, when with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform our agricultural policy.
We intend to introduce a system of safe and it is clear that is based on social criteria, in my opinion, the rapporteur has done an excellent job which shows that the Administration is much when it has a clearly defined purpose, as is the case.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the production companies, it would take no part in this system, preferring to systems that are already: individual savings bank loans, compensation fund.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say at the outset that, in principle, I welcome the Commission' s proposal to create a fund regulation, also in the context of the Austrian agriculture.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
I understand that there is a desire to make the organisation of the market in the intensive farming and the collapse of the agricultural policy when it is linked to the land, when it comes to a extensive production.
There is already a organisation of the market, and we should not make the mistake of calling into question the organisation of the market, since in general terms has the desired effect.
In the opinion of the Commission is fully justified that only require greater rigour to the farmers who take part in the Fund regulation, since after all they receive a stable income to change, as those which do not belong do not receive any compensation.
(The sitting was closed at 23.10 p.m.)
The appeal from the Value Added Tax was 36% and the traditional own resources amounted to 15% of the total.
Another element of the reform which corresponds fully with one of the key priorities identified by the Court is the need to attach greater importance to the measurement of the results and the action within a framework of allocation of resources which is consistent with the priorities and the predetermined objectives that are clearly defined and can be measured.
It is a good thing that this is the case and I would like to thank you sincerely, Mr Karlsson, like the members of the Court of Auditors and its services, the support given to the reform of the Commission in its report.
In this context and in view of its proximity, I too would like to remind you that, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, we have proposed an amendment to the Treaty to allow for the creation of a European Public Prosecutor' s office to pursue fraud to the detriment of the Community' s financial interests, I sincerely hope that the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice is not limited to take note of the proposal or to scrap, but it is discussed seriously.
The reality, as described the annual report is rather disappointing.
The number of errors identified is too high in order to be able to provide this guarantee.
The amount earmarked for activities of planning has fallen well short of EUR 240 million.
The assumption that the Court of Auditors' report would be a little easier to use and it would some clear recommendations, for example, one or two clear recommendations for chapter.
In 1995, adopted a convention on the protection of the economic interests of the European Union.
The Commission and the Member States should look from this angle and use the results of the report as a tool to improve their performance in the management of the finances of the European Union.
I know that this report and the role which Parliament is about to embark in the context of the discharge will help to increase the vigilance with regard to the Community expenditure.
And at the moment, Madam President, I would like to have tabled this amendment is to stop me talking and hope that someone from the Council come here.
The Court, as previous years, has not said exactly where there have been the failures.
Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union on and the Court of Auditors' report makes it clear that it must be a hard work in the applicant countries.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently came to an agreement with the Court of Auditors for which we could receive information from the Court of Auditors in advance as a matter of absolutely confidential and we agree that we be able to preserve in silence.
I would also like to address the Council and to ask why no progress is being made with regard to Article 24 of the Financial Regulation.
It may be that a bit of common sense of the European Union will contribute to the resolution of the problem and to put George Bush in the place of history that deserves - its into the dustbin!
We must not find scapegoats, either in our institutions or in our Member States.
Firstly, with regard to the procedure presentation of the annual report to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary control, I am pleased to hear the words reassuring honourable Members that the situation this year is more satisfactory than in previous years.
But we will have the opportunity to discuss all of this.
When it is important, from the point of view of taxation, we mention everything to be mentioned.
Ladies and gentlemen, as must have noticed, the final part of the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors has suffered the consequences of the interference of a malhadado virus between your speech and this House.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, relating to issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom and it has to be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom are Socialists, popular or Greens have defended with great vehemence and have been approved in the Committee on the Environment, public health and consumer policy.
Mr President, in March of this year we adopted the directive on the funicular railways for the transport of persons.
We are of the view that should not be passed on to the trade the manufacturer' s obligations laid down in the legislation on the safety of products.
We have heard the justifications for them and also to repeat the arguments of the sector that we heard in committee.
The seller should be enough to report the buyer on the nature of the products and the few data available on them.
Finally, a question to the European Commission in relation to Article 4 as regards the European rules and the question of whether these rules should be made public.
I am pleased with the exceptions that are for the institutions establishments and not-for-profit charitable organisations, and to the articles market as second-hand articles in car boot sales or by private individuals.
The reliability in the safety of products and after-sales assistance are added value for the European label in a particularly difficult time and decisive.
When in another context we call on the Commission to submit a proposal on the safety of services, it is incomprehensible that now want to regulate the aspects relating to services together, rather than wait for the Commission to present its proposal, now we can assume that there will be problems of demarcation of the scope of the various rules and legal uncertainty will increase over time.
I would like to say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal.
We have also provided for the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular, the candidate countries, the simplification of procedures to introduce emergency measures at Community level, so that we can intervene quickly as a result of the opinion of a regulatory committee.
This new requirement is no additional substantial responsibility in the case of this type of shops.
To replace the word "producer" with "provider" , as proposed in amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, since there is no definition of service provider in the directive.
Although the Commission is in favour of the creation of a network as soon as possible, this point will have to be agreed between the Member States.
This certificate can always be used to provide evidence, but it cannot be regarded as a litmus test in itself.
Having explained in detail the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 36 to 34 and part of amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21 and the first part of amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31 and 35 and part of Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21 and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, because they are an improvement and clarification of the Commission' s proposal.
Of course, to Mr Barón Crespo, if it is Italian Socialist cannot be part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
With regard to the order of the vote, I leave it to the decision of the President, and I would like to point out that, in any case, I am against the three amendments.
The non-Community Mediterranean countries face, there is no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to the economic development, the regional inequalities acrecientan constantly.
With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, for the sake of a harmonised European policy in the field of immigration, in addition to the legal instruments to ensure fair treatment, it would have to create financial aid instruments for all those young people who, having completed a cycle of higher studies or university in the countries of Europe, want to return to their countries of origin in order to start to exercise a professional activity.
I would like to single out one factor, which I consider to be very decisive in this matter; the lack of equality in the workplace.
Although late in the day, the Commission presented the programme to the Community framework strategy on equality between men and women (2001-2005), which creates highly of the previous and, in particular, of the fourth action programme which expires at the end of this year.
On the one hand, because they have taken account of various proposals for improvements tabled by my group, on the other, because it insists on the need to review the situation of women in the national labour markets and the lack of access to social security systems on the basis of statistics drawn up on the basis of data representative and broken down according to gender.
- my party has serious reservations with regard to apply Community law to the sale of consumer products, as well as with regard to the refusal to implement the concept of mutual recognition of standards.
Now we understand and the Labour amendments offer the guarantee that these shops will remain intact and will be exempt from the directive.
Finally, amendment No 15 is a free hand to the Commission with regard to the language regime of the agency, which we consider to be very worrying.
The simplification of the decision-making procedures, the creation of decentralised operations foundations (Not only in Pristina, where it has acquired the significance of the separation of Yugoslavia), the treatment of the management dual structure between the Council and the Commission, can be positive movements in the direction of dealing with the great bureaucratic inadequacy of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
We are therefore voting against both of the Commission' s proposal and Parliament' s report.
That is why, it seems justified to adapt the existing Community legislation in the area.
In addition, the fund offers the possibility that the authorities should more or less hidden aid in the form of cofinancing by the Member States.
- (EL) despite its serious shortcomings, the Morillon report is, of course, more advanced than the Commission' s proposal with regard to the European Union - Ôurquía partnership.
We have voted against.
Like the rapporteur, we must admit that Turkey has made progress in certain plans and that there are positive signs.
Since 1987 this House had started the path of recognition, and the adoption of this amendment demonstrates the coherence of the Parliament in this debate.
The Union must do more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
These ulterior motives are unworthy of Europe and unworthy of Turkey.
For several years, as a member of the Delegation for relations with Canada, I have seen the operation of one of these regional organisations, NAFO (Fisheries organisation in the Northwest Atlantic), involving the countries of this region, including Canada, as well as all those who use in this place traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
It is not at all satisfied until its cañoneras fleet, by flying the flags of the "ring of stars" , monitor the implementation of its policies on fisheries.
The important thing is not, therefore, to satisfy the desire for hegemony of the Commission and weaken the position of Europe, that it would be in contradiction with the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, following difficult negotiations was to defend a worthwhile result.
The aim of this proposal, which aims to replace three directives on the incineration of waste is to improve the quality of the air, water, soil, the health of the people, by reducing emissions of pollutants linked to the activities of incineration and co-incineration and, above all, dioxins and furanes and heavy metals.
However, I also think it is important to stress as innovation that now it is not just a question of emissions into the atmosphere but also of emissions water and land.
The proposal has been improved during its preparation.
The introduction of limits much more stringent NOx emissions for new co-incineration plants, such as the cement works, is another step forward which will serve as the incentive for the reduction of emissions, despite the fact that the proposed rules do not reflect the best available techniques.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise - especially Mr Blokland, for having come a few minutes late.
In conclusion, this directive is an important contribution to the reduction of the harmful effects on the environment and the risks that they represent to human health.
The European Parliament to be met, on behalf of discrimination and the fight against the exclusions and in respect of the responsibilities of each, to give a strong boost to the creation of a mechanism which will enable there is the essential principle of solidarity.
There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there are no detailed statistical data comparable in order to be able to say in a credible way what is in force in each country, which is, and where - what works better, what the weaknesses are, and so on, which is why, in fact, in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary policy, it stresses the need, before legislate Community rules on supplementary insurance disease, for the Commission to draw up a Green Paper which collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
To date, this issue has been regarded as taboo to some extent.
There is a danger that due to the presence of serious risks citizens with health problems and the elderly can only take a limited private insurance, which is incompatible with social development.
The second point of view illustrated by the original intention of the rapporteur and shared by many colleagues is to promote the regulations and codes of conduct necessary to introduce, between insurers, forms of mutualización costs, guaranteeing to all the provision of a good quality health care, and in order to avoid the risks to develop discriminatory practices, as well as a selection of the risks and customers.
I think it is absolutely wrong that the money will be the determining factor to be first in line.
The new proposal from the Committee on employment and social affairs we think it is right: firstly be drawn up an inventory in a Green Paper and then decide whether we need a directive or a recommendation.
Today, in the Netherlands is taking place a debate on the introduction of structural changes in the system.
This is the basis of the basis of the Commission to draw up an initiative and to articulate test specific can become guidelines for the health systems of the Member States.
That is why it is unlikely that the answer is a single solution and absolute medical insurance for all.
I therefore believe that we must opt for the content of the report by Mr Rocard, whom we congratulate the Commission, which calls on the provision of a service, a Green Paper which will enable us to be aware of the current state of insurance in the Member States and also define the future.
Both are on a model of three pillars: the State, business and the private.
As regards supplementary pensions, the European Union has already drawn up a series of rules. it through the drafting of a Green Paper which follows a draft directive.
Mr President, I would like to express my thanks and offer my congratulations to Mr Rocard for his report and to congratulate Mr.
This study will form the basis for a communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament to propose initiatives or measures.
With regard to the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets, I can say with pleasure that all have been incorporated.
We have supported the characteristic features of the programme, such as the multidimensional treatment of the phenomenon, the measures on health, education, housing, coherence and complementarity with other policies related, as well as the participation of non-governmental organisations, and of the very people affected by social exclusion.
This means that we must use the bottom-up stages of the cycle to restore a balance or surplus situation.
In this regard simply remind you that the last Ecofin Council has requested of the Commission, as from next year, be included in the assessment of the stability programmes this long-term aspect of public finances on the ageing of the population.
One of the positive features of the programme of the Netherlands is the special attention paid - as I said earlier, the impact of the ageing of the population in public finances over the next few years.
For this reason, the resulting budget for the year 2000, in the German case, will give a surplus of a point and a half the gross domestic product.
If we add to this the development of the exchange rate of the euro against the dollar, we have had a clear negative impact in terms of inflation.
Are also to make a public distribution system compatible with private capitalisation systems and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of specific investment funds can obtain tax benefits in the long term and that they can help to address the problem of ageing.
The third principle that guides us, then, is the precautionary principle.
It should be remembered that are currently discussing a number of proposals regulations, which will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism and, therefore, I hope, consumer confidence.
However, this relatively low incidence is no reason to be satisfied.
Frankly, I was disappointed that the statement yesterday by the Prime Minister Jospin had no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
There is a clear need to find explanations to the increase in the incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
The Commission' s Food and Veterinary office already gives absolute priority to the controls of the Member States in relation to the protection measures against BSE.
With regard to their security, let me repeat that there is already a wide range of controls in place to ensure that the meat and bone meal do not represent a threat of BSE infection.
Yes, though it may be difficult to believe, it took four years to adopt a measure that I consider it essential for the protection of public health.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like demand that the Council made public, at last, its opinion on the regulation on BSE.
In this situation, the only way to break the circle of BSE infection is the total ban on use meat and bone meal in animal feed.
In this area, I would like to say that the group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
The policies must change this state of affairs to the real responsible for this crisis are penalised and specific decisions to take a first step in order to put an end to this dramatic crisis.
Would have, therefore, that review.
The labelling of beef which has been adopted, which is a minimum labelling and which entered into force only two and a half months, makes it impossible to trace the origin of the animals properly and have banned the specified risk materials very late in the day.
The public must be fully aware of the nature of the test to which I refer.
At the time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did nothing or almost nothing, and their counterparts nor did nothing about the consequences of Chernobyl, nothing about the AIDS epidemic, nothing about the contaminated blood, provided for the same reason: not to cause panic among the public.
The French ban will lead to a huge increase in the demand, but the stocks of this products are limited.
Consumers have lost confidence, and to contain this phenomenon is necessary to generalise the BSE tests to cattle and sheep.
In the Commission' s proposal now is far more important work to ensure that the meat and bone meal meet the highest safety standards.
Moreover, I fully agree - for once and without setting a precedent - with regard the ladies colleagues have said Ainardi, Auroi and Mrs Grossetête.
Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, have a financial basis enough to carry out a sound policy.
We must tackle it. Mr.
Madam President, Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased to hear here, within this Chamber, that, at all costs, it is necessary to change the CAP.
We had denounced in due course, here, with Jimmy Goldsmith.
The food must be a safe food for human beings.
I think it is very exemplary that France has been quick to take this step.
But these are not aid.
That is why I am surprised that in these circumstances is to continue to be able to use or processing carcasses.
The Phillips report on BSE has recently been published in the United Kingdom.
I would like to suggest that the European Commission also apply the precautionary principle with regard to beef in France.
We need to know today, because we are still in uncertainty, what the scientific data, what are the measures to be taken.
On the other hand, I have heard all these proposals; I am not insensitive to them.
If representatives of the Member States come and tell me that legislation has not been implemented in its entirety, perhaps we should rethink the issue but we will not do so because the scientists tell us that it is necessary, but because there are gaps in compliance with the law in the European Union.
The best way not hear us is not invite us, in any case, Mr.
The Commission considers that for the clarification and the coordination of these policies readmission agreements play an important role and at the moment the first agreements are currently under negotiation Community readmission with Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Morocco.
What proposals does the Commission have in this area on the basis of Article 31 of the Union?
(The President cut the speaker off)
The aim during this period has been reducing the public deficit in order to achieve a more acomodante monetary policy, lower interest rates and a more growth.
I always say that the euro will be introduced on 1 January 2002, the euro is already in our pockets, but we have with coins fraccionarias different, but we already have in their pockets.
The maximum values laid down by Directive 92/72 will not be exceeded in the city of Athens, although it should be noted that it is not they have carried out measurements in the middle of the summer.
Subject: public aid to the audiovisual sector in a seminar of the French Presidency industries related to culture, a representative of the Directorate-General for competition of the European Commission said that the legal obligations of investment imposed on the television channels are state aid by the fact that these investments are imposed on a compulsory basis by the legislator.
It must be respected and protected .
However, this is not clear, since the new growth is very truly unequal and can be accompanied, as we have seen in the United States for some ten years persistent phenomena of insecurity, of exclusion, poverty, urban ghettización.
The governments of the Member States not accepted this definition, which is also really is something simple and too commonplace.
In establishing the hostile environment, many people are on the way and are rejected.
Mr President, in this House is listening very often, as a report, the glorification of the European social model, the social market economy must be set with pride - many think - the wild model of the United States.
(Technical error)
This is an enormous amount.
Furthermore, they must join all political levels.
I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, relocations, rural desertification, hyperconcentration urban, with speeches innovative and specific involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in the fight against social exclusion and the role of the social and structural reforms.
This is a problem of a legal nature, since, in accordance with the wording of the Treaty, we can only the reference to social exclusion and poverty.
In my opinion, these proposals are a pragmatic response to your question.
But agree the strategy does not necessarily mean line in the details.
If we define a clear and binding framework for the Member States, the various systems that have to comply with these requirements should have a longer period of evidence.
Renewable energy sources are not going to be a panacea for solving this problem, but there is no doubt that, in large part, can help to improve the situation and to diversify the sources of energy and to reduce our dependence on hydrocarbons, which on the other hand we would be nothing wrong.
I will repeat three of our demands.
The establishment of realistic targets will without doubt to increase the confidence of the citizen in the energy policy to be applied.
I believe that a strong policy in the field of renewable energy is a symbol for the Europe of tomorrow.
Finally, these agreements must allow the countries of Europe to fulfil its contribution to achieving the objectives set out in Kyoto.
It is regrettable that the exclusion any category that can contribute to the achievement of the general objective of recovering energy from waste - whether it is small-scale projects as if it is a part of the total calculation.
The shaping of the biomass of peat in its fotosíntesis and production of vegetable waste is similar to that of the other plant biomass.
I would like to inform Mr Chichester that off the coast of my people are being set up quickly windmills at sea, a project that certainly is going to come into operation in a very short space of time, so I would like to invite you to see it when it has been set in motion.
The controversy on the renunciation of nuclear energy, for example in Sweden and Germany, has revealed that if there are no on the horizon ecological energy alternatives that are feasible at a competitive price, the debate is doomed to failure.
For this reason, the Member States should have binding targets.
Therefore, I am optimistic about the future potential of renewable energy sources, provided that it is necessary to pay the incentives.
I believe that it would be a value to put constantly to renewable energy sources in the place they deserve.
A very strong rise in the price of oil, there is no doubt that puts us more acute in the problems associated with our dependence on fossil energy sources energy.
Therefore, we cannot accept amendment No 28.
However, in doing so, the Commission is well aware that the terms used not prejudge its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single electricity market.
In the committee for the reconstruction of Tajikistan, where there are 25 000 widows, only one of the 26 delegates was women.
Despite the fact that the proportion of women has been limited, studies have shown that the participation of women in the peacekeeping forces of the UN improving relations with the local population and the moral General.
The report Theorin is in this area in very specific details and makes repetitions that as the group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats we would ask draw in the sense of an official document.
From a political point of view, I believe that amendment No 19 can be interpreted as a defeat tactics or a tactical step backwards instead of a real commitment, which is not worthy of the cause of women.
Were held for example, are held prisoner.
Also Portugal, where women did not have access to diplomacy to "April 1974 revolution" , has recently shown, in the case of East Timor and our ambassador in Indonesia, Ana Gomes, that the role of a woman and its sensitivity to the problems and the suffering of a people that faced alone A 25 years fight for freedom can be ways throughout the world and, in particular, here in the European Parliament.
The Member States that they have done to date are few.
That is why it is necessary to take account of this dimension to draw the policies of the European Union in the future.
Unfortunately, not we shall now proceed to define the concepts and make distinctions.
Our protest will send, please, to the Council.
They are people with different experiences, experience needed in the way in which it is politics, particularly in the management of the conflict.
The debate is closed.
Which brings me to my second point, if it wishes to regulate the sector, we will need to consider a number of areas.
The last few weeks I understand that there is a great deal of interest on the part of the international trade union circles and some national trade unions.
Allegation in are against two, then agree with a salary for housewives?
Makes life easier for many families and promotes equal opportunities.
Often, have been united in this project two or three families to put together a person.
We have been sitting in the plenary session of this first part-session in October, while held the debate on the situation in Yugoslavia, when we were able to the courageous reaction of the Serbian people, and immediately, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the lifting of sanctions International.
In this way, Europe has shown the vitality of its civilisation, within the framework of the history of the world, and their ability to creative political imagination to its future development.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro in Yugoslavia by our own resources, by means of the genuine recognition of the principles of democracy.
I have to say that, while you were speaking, I impresioné a great deal to the way in which you controlled such a difficult situation, and, at the same time, for his determination.
It will take care of this in the next minutes, Mr Watson.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to control the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.
I believe that a fifth amendment important is the annual report should especially look at the documents that need to be secret or, at least, are kept secret.
This issue is ambiguous, and it is possible to enter and remain in force more restrictive rules, which is why we have tabled amendments on this point, among others.
The Committee on foreign Affairs rejected the idea of excluding of transparency, automatically and Group, to the documents relating to foreign affairs and security.
If we want the citizens' rights are really effective, we need to these places of new staff specifically prepared to know guide the citizens seeking information through the complicated maze of the institutions.
They are important in order to be able to achieve an internal advertising.
I am delighted that Parliament has been able to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for this excellent work.
Mr President, access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy good reputation.
If so, it is a mistake, because it is the credibility and reliability of the European Union for the citizen.
Documents are a great deal today and we would like to ensure that there is the widest possible access to the different types of documents of the various possible ways.
Mr President, the Commission' s position with regard to the public access to documents can be seen in the internal manual was sent on 11 October employees of the Commission to inform you of how to manage the applications of public access to documents presented by the Members of the European Parliament.
This provision must be eliminated or, at least, enlarged to include consideration to evaluate the interests of the applicant.
The normal way in developing the cooperation at international level with the rules of the game and uses diplomacy, that is to say, that everything is carried out with the smoke-screens reductions, there is no point in modern cooperation which has developed the EU.
Should not be confused with the role of the European Parliament or with the future interinstitutional agreements.
I believe that this has taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
However, it is not the only whom I thank, thank you very much deserves Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen of the PPE-DE Group, which has been the rapporteur of the proposal under the strict application of the Hughes procedure.
Transparency must be one of the basic pillars of all the activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente for the completion of transparency.
The European Parliament calls for, then, that the European security and defence policy is introduced in the future in the structures of the European Commission.
When addressed to Parliament, on 3 October last, President Prodi referred to the institutional triangle and mentioned in a European system based on checks and balances, the flow of the operation of each institution contributes to the common interest.
I have to say that the great challenge in this regulation is the precise definition of the documents.
I would like to stress that, when the time comes, in practical terms, the Commission could accept all the amendments, such as the 9, 18, 21 in part, 23, 25, 26,1, 28 (F), 35, 38, 40,1, 40,6, 41,1, 42, 43,1, 47, 49 and 52.
I would like to vote in occasions in favour of the proposals put forward by the Commission, and to this end it is necessary that Members have the list of amendments that the Commission can support and the list which does not want to support.
Capital of credit institutions
Finally, and most controversial, the committee made a strong call for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation.
These amendments replace a number of other proposals in the report that probably will be rejected in the vote and then will be replaced by these new amendments as a result of this consensus.
Mr President, in view of the excellent vote in support of this report and given the response from the Commission this morning, it is clear - if you look at all the parts on which we voted - which, under rule 2 (69) of the Rules of procedure, we should postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution in order to be able to start fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, I am sorry if I said that the PPE-DE Group also requested that the vote be postponed, but the coordinator came up and told me that they wanted to postpone the matter to the November II part-session, rather than voting now.
The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels has pointed out, this is a very important issue.
I do not know how much the roll-call vote costs, but it is, of course, hundreds of thousands of francs, or Belgian francs, of our budget.
I know that in France whole herds have been slaughtered and it is not that this is the best way forward.
Removing the meat and bone meal food all animals, not just the cattle and sheep, but also of the pig and poultry and fish,
This is not acceptable.
It is on provisions such as consumers will be reassured and farmers you will hear the message of solidarity that we want to convey to you.
It is necessary, as a matter of urgent priority, go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
The ban on the use meat and bone meal in animal feed is only the first step in this direction.
We regret greatly, on the other hand, that the amendments tabled by our Group were not adopted.
I believe that it would be sensible to reduce the working time of people working in companies that pollute.
I will conclude by insisting once again on the fact that the generalisation of the exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead us to put up with the production of such waste.
If, for example, had more pensions enough to live, there would be less poor.
The report raises a budget of EUR 100 million over five years to reduce poverty.
I therefore give my unreserved support to the proposal to set in motion a process of Luxembourg (A) in the field of social exclusion, including guidelines and national action plans.
In fact, the report calls for setting qualitative and quantitative indicators of social exclusion.
In presenting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is in accordance with the request of the Council to present "by June 2000" a "initiative for cooperation in this field" .
Mr President, I have abstained for a very specific reason: this report, in my view, has not done, from an ecological point of view, the progress that I had hoped and auguraba.
I trust that this system is extended to all the cities of Europe.
Some of the European Parliament proposals are realistic and cannot count on my support.
We must also be able to achieve better in the future which are more publicly known the existing good practices.
The people who have high incomes and are aware of the environment have the freedom to choose a cleaner energy within a free market, while the rest is still not be able to choose.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
These three reasons are as follows: firstly, because is in the process of consolidating democracy and the deepening of the requirement of respect for human rights, particularly in relation to the indigenous peoples.
Mr President, in this debate we wish to express, as has been said by other Members who have spoken before me in the use of the word, solidarity and support of our institution to the Central American Parliament at a time when we are fighting for maintaining the priority in the area of the European Union' s external relations with the countries of Latin America.
I do not have the reservations which has been able to express our colleague and friend, the chairman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, with regard to the issue of human rights.
Finally, in the dialogue with the centroamericanas authorities, the Commission is also by reiterating the importance to be given to the process of regional integration as an instrument to consolidate the democratisation and development in the area.
To cling to power has not hesitated to take the obsessive debate on the "marfilidad" , resulting in a wave of hatred xenophobia, on the other, abroad, from Burkina or the Malian and, however, there are many working and living in the territory of Côte d'Ivoire for many years.
The establishment of a true democracy in Côte d'Ivoire cannot be done without the creation of a committee of inquiry independent of the crimes committed and without the official commitment to respect human rights and civil peace.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time at the same time, however, I believe that there is no possible compromise to democracy and the question today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that which arises for example to Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is no democratic system.
I will conclude with the following question: there are dictatorships, Mr President, just because there are people who suffer from poverty, which do not have access to that do not have access to knowledge.
It would be illogical that the European Union required today the holding of new presidential elections in which might be able to take part, this time, all the candidates.
This is in many parts of Africa with the more various religious and ethnic mixtures.
These elections must allow the representation at national level of the political parties were excluded in the presidential election and compensate for, if only in part, the imperfections of this first choice.
On the situation in Burma
They are doing a great offensive against the Shan people and against the Karen people and, according to the UN rapporteur has said, there is any sign of dialogue between the SPDC and the national League for Democracy.
That is why we reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the Commission and the Council in this direction.
I hope that in giving priority to this issue as urgent, this Parliament will send a clear message to the people of Burma that its urgent situation is not forgotten and that we recognise that the situation in Burma is getting worse rather than better and we are determined to try to do something about it.
It has been a long time be achieved.
In Asia precisely there is a danger that the economic and political reforms desacoplen, of that there can be economic progress and economic liberalisation without liberalisation in the political sphere and strengthening of the rule of law, although I am of the opinion that without a functioning, the rule of law, subsidies trade and investment will be lost in the long term.
Mr President, I agree with my predecessors on the floor with many essential points of what has been said today, because much of what is happening in Vietnam is not acceptable.
However, now says human Rights Watch, to which Mr Swoboda referred, which Vietnam has recently given some steps to improve the situation in relation to human rights.
These extremely secret documents provide us with a strange look behind the scenes of the policy of the Vietnamese administration.
The Commission remains convinced, however, that can only be achieved a lasting solution to the current situation by means of a dialogue between the military regime, the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities.
There are also clear pressures of the Vietnamese authorities to its own press has a system of self-censorship.
The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions:
Also we would like to see that the EU give aid and assistance, not only in the south-west but in all the areas that have been affected.
I would ask you all to support our resolution.
There is an urgent need for the Union is not limited to deploy actions extraordinary when disasters have already happened.
The Commission has taken two initiatives in this respect.
Mr President, there has been a purely linguistic mistake by introducing one of the amendments in the joint resolution.
The vote on the delay means postponing the request to the Commission.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The report is based on the fact that an increasing part of health insurance in Europe is covered by insurance complementary.
I think it is odd that we want to now organisations to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time I ask a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
At a time when the ageing population dramatically, it is crucial that we try to improve the health system for the people of the whole of Europe.
We could not contribute to this.
Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of the fast track when it comes to implementing the results of the Basle review on banking capital adequacy.
In these circumstances, such an initiative would rather the opposite effect to the expected to impose our banking sectors additional obligations without guarantees compensation, despite the orders of this House, the Commission does not have any means to ensure that the banks of the European Union will no longer be subject to discriminatory treatment by the American authorities.
We must take care that Basle, moreover, does not produce that banks will cause a second burden a higher demand of funds.
This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that the economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach that has been giving these regulations on capital which strengthen the issues relating to the risk.
These are the first thoughts of how we could achieve a rapid legislative process to be controlled and efficient within the current rules of the Treaty.
And, indeed, the time has come to recognise that the institution of the Ombudsman is sufficiently developed and has already given sufficient evidence of maturity in order to have a budget.
The group of the Party of European EPP/ED supports the position of the Committee on constitutional Affairs that the powers of the Ombudsman should be extended and the sooner the better, especially when it comes to the Ombudsman' s investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the Decision of 1994.
An Ombudsman is, of course limited by the rules governing the documentary secret, but it is good that the citizens know that he or she, as Ombudsman, can have access to documents that they do not have.
The starting point of this report is ombudsmann' s recommendation to the Commission, in relation to this, that will make it possible to candidates access to their examinations already remedied with regard to the selection procedure organised by the same.
We believe that the institutions of the Community should carry out their recruitment procedures, and, indeed, all procedures, with the maximum openness and transparency in order to avoid the suspicions of bias, injustice and administrative incompetence.
I am referring here to an amendment on the demand of the indisputable proof of the development of an oral test, for example.
Our colleague, Mr Bösch, has already explained briefly here the amendments that have been made in this report.
Having put the questions to the Commission on the management and organisation of the last internal opposition, I received concrete and detailed answers.
That is beginning to open the process of the transparent government and to do so.
First of all, in the tests that are on the part of the Commission, the corrections are always anonymously.
Of course I was talking about July 2000.
VOTE
(Parliament rejected the proposal to postpone the vote)
To assess the directive on own resources of the credit institutions must be carefully weighed the various interests that are in conflict.
It emerged the idea of a European police college for the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries.
This is the position defended by the rapporteur and the group of the European People' s Party shares.
The social situation in the majority of the Member States of the European Union is such that there is a great need for cooperation between the different police forces beyond the borders of their own country.
It appears that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the School has a permanent seat.
The umpteenth interim decision but not precarious, a regalito that the Council is to make to this Parliament.
The rapporteur wishes to make the prevention of crime, the provision of services, innovation and the border surveillance and also wants to change the internal security in order to include the maintenance of law and order.
Those were the ideals we proposed and that was the kind of state for the working.
I welcome the possibility of levelling down the standards of some Member States of the European Union.
Since the initial ideas on this issue made at European level on the initiative of the European Parliament, the Commission is committed to the Member States to action designed to develop what we could consider a European police culture underpinned by the highest standards of ethics, respect for the rights and freedoms of the citizens and effectiveness in the fight against crime.
This is that the Police College is to develop above all from an intergovernmental perspective.
For the reasons relating, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
- (SV) I have voted against the report on temporary creation of the European Police College.
Of course many of our courts are very slow and ponderosos, and it is very difficult to make act quickly in these matters.
Of course, the proposed regulation is not perfect, because that is linked to the Brussels II regulation ' , which does not include children whose parents are separated, as well as children outside marriage.
My own mother was separation of this kind and kidnapping 85 years ago, and even talk about this.
Therefore, I should like to say to the House that the action programme on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in civil matters - whose approval we hope by the end of this year, the Commission proposes that the first and top priority be given to the extension of the scope of the Brussels II regulation and, therefore, this regulation on the right to visit, covering without discrimination in the same way as married couples for children and the unions.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
Today, sport - and it has to be said - is closely linked to other economic sectors, such as, for example, the industries of the audiovisual sector or the promotion and sale of sports products.
What we need is an intelligent and flexible way to interpret the current rules.
It is, strictly speaking, of an attack on democracy, even though we must avoid see things in this light.
That is why the Commission this forward to receive an answer to your request for detailed information on the measures planned by the government of the United Kingdom.
This proposal was presented by the Minister for the Economy in a statement pre-presupuestaria made six months before the full presentation of the draft budget in the spring of 2001.
Once again, I think that what Mr Simpson has said has been extremely helpful to reassure us on the probable intentions of the government of the United Kingdom.
The congestion are not just a waste of time, not only generate high costs, but for the environment are a problem, and that is why I think the British Government is really money to solve these problems, then all will be something, especially all the citizens of Europe.
We are practically the only oil producer of the European Union and yet we have the higher prices of petrol, the high price of diesel compared with any other country in Europe - in Britain we pay GBP 1.20 per litre of diesel.
This item is closed.
The European Parliament must tell them that is on your side, and I propose that, once again, we express our solidarity with a minute' s silence and our emotion.
Madam President, I fully support, since I am one of those who have asked for the inclusion of this point.
We have a number of important steps forward.
The EU will go into more detail its relations with all the important groups and also will be in contact with the new government of the United States as soon as possible.
Prescott on the agreement that he had drawn up, how is it that not only Mrs Voynet, but also, I believe, the majority of the other European environment ministers - and this is my last question to the Commissioner - and I rejected?
It is to be feared that the momentum has been lost and the American negotiators change and may have to start again.
The forests have been this time, the major obstacle.
A part of the soil of the countries of the European Union will be at sea or desert as a result of the continuing warming which are subjected.
And the price of oil products under the level of wealth is high.
I congratulate Commissioner Wallström for their efforts in The Hague and I wish you more successful.
No doubt it was better to reach agreement not be a bad agreement, and in this case the American position was a cut-price, totally unacceptable position for Europe.
Climate change have major consequences for the developing countries.
I would like to repeat it in English: forest turns from being carbon sinks to carbon sources.
Only this credibility will be in the position of leading the position that the European Union and action in the COP VI "B" in Bonn.
We are going to have to do our own assessment of what happened and prepare documents to be in contact with the various parties and, of course, with the broad representation.
Of course, the monitoring of the forthcoming work in preparation for the COP Conference or the continuation of the work in preparation for the COP Conference will be the ratification of an agreement within the Union.
Before the European Council, Pierre Moscovici and I myself will be the next Sunday a ministerial conclave to which I have invited Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, as well as a session of the IGC, on Monday, on the occasion of the General Affairs Council.
The minimum number of Member States were to participate was to limit to, and the appeal clause to the European Council, which is currently a genuine right of veto will be replaced by a right of knowledge.
We should regret it, but I am obliged to make this point.
The European Council will also discuss the progress of accession negotiations, and therefore of enlargement.
The Lisbon European Council had adopted guidelines to promote a innovative and competitive European economy.
Consumer protection is a growing concern of Europeans, for obvious reasons that do not require more explanation.
We must prepare for this unprecedented enlargement.
Unfortunately, the current text of the Conference is very complicated, very ambiguous and very long, with two protocols, however, in spite of this scale and this complicated, it is also very weak, we do not facilitates the simple answer is for the simple problem that we have a long time ago.
(Applause)
One was that the own candidate countries should adopt and apply the "acquis communautaire" ; that is the task that share with us.
We appreciate deeply the Charter of Fundamental rights and we do not want to confine ourselves to declamarla.
It is true that the text would have been better, and can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
I find it unacceptable that a number of governments have refused outright to consider the possibility of including a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
You do not even want to introduce it in the Treaty and in evidence that this document, this exercise should set aside.
We will discuss with a single and thankless task vote in the WTO.
In view of the dubious prospects of success, I do not think it is right bear the Intergovernmental Conference with another extremely complex and controversial issue.
I want to make an urgent appeal to the French Presidency to make every effort to remove this rejection, because it is extremely destructive.
In the field of trade policy, the Commission has drawn up a proposal which must be examined carefully.
Although the previous Treaty made some progress in the implementation of this formula, also brought the absurd formula codecision more unanimity in matters relating to citizenship, social security, workers' rights and also the cultural policy.
The simple approach to this issue is, in itself, clearly shows the failure of a policy of strengthening the links of mutual trust between the countries of the Union.
This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the result is that nobody renunciation of its plaything.
This year' s experience obliges us to say that the momentum that must be given to the process of constitutionalisation of the Union after Nice and looking to the future of Europe must not be left to the method, already come to the end of the reserved negotiation between the representatives of the governments.
As Mr Prodi has just said, if we do not adopt a rule on the majority decision-making is an obstacle to fail.
In our debate today nothing has been said on this aspect of subsidiarity, but it is very important.
We did, happened enlargement of 1995, was the Reflection Group who chaired quite rightly Carlos Wensterdorp, wine Amsterdam and now we are going to have Nice and we are still almost like, Mr President: giving way to the institutional issues, without find solutions that will enable us to dispose of an ambitious task, which is that enlargement to 27.
Let us not add to the disappointment that will lead to the Nice Summit, if Nice, of course, it is futile, the disappointment caused to the peoples by our Parliament.
In the past, we should also be showing that this objective was achievable and, as a representative of a Member State that has benefited from a planned transition to accession, I hope with positive attitude the achievement of an enlarged Europe and peaceful.
But we must understand that, if you are the right of veto, of the other.
But we must also make a first transition for Parliament to be elected in 2004, because at least some Member States join before the new Parliament is elected in 2004 or during your term of office until 2009.
The President-in-Office of the Council has dealt with the issue of closer cooperation and said that things are moving towards a consensus on this issue.
Mr President, at first sight, Nice is the necessary adjustments and the still unresolved issues with a view to enlargement.
If we had something of this mentality, if we were to do less emphasis on what is going wrong in this part of the world and were more emphasis on what is going well, it would be more fortunate that we are at the moment.
The majority decisions to be taken in the Council should not only apply to goods, but also to other related areas such as services, investment, intellectual property and competition, Rule 1 (133) must be amended in this respect.
The right of initiative of the European Parliament would open the way for the arbitrariness of the political parties was also invading this highly sensitive field.
Therefore, as one of you said, by referring to the American optimism and to the way in which the Americans talk about themselves, we should also stress what works and what is on the move.
I would like to say that I do not believe that there is a problem between large and small countries.
We have worked a great deal, but we are faced with this old problem, and I do not believe that it can start the development by a single country, because we are once again in of the Member States, to the realities - national, political, democratic - very important.
Lastly, Mr President Mr Védrine, you have shown a tense situation too and has also been talk of some pessimism.
Will he take you, furthermore, general measures to enhance the safety of appropriate ways to prevent something similar happen again?
In my opinion, we have to take the appropriate precautions - something that we have not yet done - to the guests of this Parliament can be pleased, without having to be afraid of potential threats, to this end we must create the necessary technical conditions, both from the point of view of the organisation and from the point of view of safety.
Here, hospitality; there, hospitality and respect.
Thank you for your contribution, Mr Tajani.
The best tribute to Ernest Lluch and you would be to respect their message - diàleg in Catalan: can we offer all that time the Basque people?
On the other hand, each can, of course, to express their opinion.
(B5-0550/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on foreign Affairs, Human Rights, common security and defence policy, to the Commission, on the political situation in Afghanistan and humanitarian aid.
When I talk about organisation would also like to say that, in view of the enormous efforts undertaken by the European Union, it is logical that it is the responsibility of the same.
Secondly, you will see in the resolution the very clear will of Parliament to base the security and defence policy on two pillars balanced: the civil crisis management and, in the event of failure, the military management, since the two pillars are complementary.
- (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay which we have been and also my obligations, I will try to these conclusions of the European Council, in accordance with the speech I had prepared.
These relations are plasmarán in meetings between the North Atlantic Council and the COPSI and meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European countries candidate or allies.
See, for example, what has happened in the Balkans, where it can be said that each has played their part to the full.
In this period we have had the United States widely informed of the progress under way under the European security and defence policy, which is a sine qua non for which it is in harmony, as is the case at the moment.
In the European Parliament was the second edition of the European Union' s annual report on human rights. 13 December will be organised in Paris a forum devoted to human rights.
This policy, you say, does not have to ambition compete with the Atlantic Alliance, which today remains the basis of the collective defence of its members, or create a permanent European army.
On the other hand, although I mentioned the figure of 100,000 military, that does not mean that ambicionemos overcome the objective laid down in Helsinki, but that we have a reserve in qualifications and different specialities, which makes it possible to ensure that would be achieved the 60,000 men which correspond to the objective of the Council, beyond the operational conditions of their use.
Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, refer in a few words to the deep political sense, which was adopted by a large part of public opinion, this new task, by means of which Europe is a tool of political influence it was missing.
We are now facing the problem to ensure that, when we talk about consolidation of liberal democracy in Europe, we refer to the whole continent of Europe, because this is enlargement and the process of enlargement.
We need to integrate three tracks etc. should into a coherent whole, Community policies, CFSP, including the ESDP, and national measures of the Member States.
Even with our laborious procedures of the Commission, we do not need a force of 60,000 soldiers to achieve our objectives.
We must therefore establish a humanitarian aid solution as a matter of urgency.
Although it is true that I do not agree with the cynics who say that Europe can with a new impracticable game, it is true that the rapid reaction force is not clever in many situations.
The EU should not develop a defence system itself with regular troops.
Finally, I would like to express my group' s concern at the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do their utmost to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now at the entrance to the winter.
To put it simply: where, when and how must act European intervention force.
May understand the terrible results of these two months "intifada" : 270 dead, the Palestinian majority, and over 10,000 injured, often baldados for life.
That is why the continued effort will serve to create an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction extremely I would like to ask.
Secondly, contrary to what has been said by the previous speaker, I do not know whether it is possible or desirable for the European Union to do more than what is before the conflict and the escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, in the transitional period of the United States.
Mr President, in my speech I shall focus on dealing with Mrs Lalumière' s report, which, in my view, is well prepared and clearly expressed.
There is a political concept and really not yet there is a common foreign and security policy.
The EU has only a problem, namely that so far has failed awaken the interest of the public by such measures in spite of the fact that they are much more sustainable and effective.
Mr President, then there is, of course, the budget; how to share out this.
And I say this, despite the enormous amount of apparent guarantees that have arisen on this matter miraculously over the last few days.
We should work together and in a coordinated fashion. we should move towards a better European policy acquisition of supplies to have a more efficient defence industry which offers greater value for money.
Even those who question the usefulness of the decision, for example, to create the so-called euro-army, must repair in the important political dimension of this decision and its influence in the cohesion of the European Union.
The first has been so historic presence of a defence minister in this House we have set aside the evening session so that the impression is not too strong for our Members.
For all of them, a preventive civil crisis management is a means better than the military solutions.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, take part in a political union with an undemocratic regime?
Therefore, Europe is not going to be a new alliance, as I have heard mention in an argument informed so incomplete.
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 5 (42) of the Rules of procedure, to wind up this debate.
Given the scale of the task given to four committees and established a unprecedented procedure, with four parallel reports.
All the measures proposed in the White Paper must agree to modernise and make all the effective operation of the Commission.
It would therefore be appropriate for the reform outside the opportunity to limit your speech only in areas that do not involve expenditure.
The differences of opinion that arose were not only of a political nature, but reflected even more the cultural differences between the fifteen Member States.
The new internal audit service, under the direct responsibility of you, Mr Kinnock, Vice-President responsible for reform, will be most important task the analysis of the functions and systems of internal control within the Commission.
It has been a pleasure to work together, and I believe that the process to deal with a crucial reform of the Commission, which is essential for the future of the European Union has had a thorough and wealth added thanks to the participation of us four.
May have expectations of transfer to other European institutions, implementation of committees of services in the national administrations or to work in the private sector.
In this way, our constitutional committee recalls membership of a strong, independent commission, efficient, transparent and politically responsible.
The Committee on Budgets we believe that the establishment of activity-based budgeting causes us problems because of the lack of visibility of the expenditure and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament as a budgetary authority.
This will make, of course, the good will of this Parliament to carry forward this reform with the Commission.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
This is shameful if we take into account the fact that the EU is the first supporter of the modernisation of economic life.
Mr President, despite the efforts of the rapporteurs to support the work of the Commission, the recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts is not yet a global and coherent response with a view to a policy of government and not only to better administration of the institution.
This change of attitude should be translated into the transparency of the administration.
In my view, in the world there is a structure which magazine a larger and fundamental importance: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, a whole continent; the most industrialised part of the world currently has been made clear in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
The change is never easy.
In doing so, however, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists we believe that the current functioning of the Community' s public administration is quite effective.
The result is that indicated by the commitment and the competence of the many members of the Commission and its administration.
Many thousands of requests for projects have been more than a year waiting for an evaluation.
The debate, as we have seen, is not so much of principles, objectives or opportunity to reform, the procedures pace, timetable, possible problems or unintended consequences of its implementation.
I should like to begin by informing the House that at its meeting this morning, as Mr van Hulten pointed out earlier, the College has adopted a proposal for interinstitutional agreement for the establishment of an advisory group on basic standards in public life, as provided for in the action 1 of the action programme in the White Paper.
In addition, these changes it is clear that only would be possible with an amendment to the Treaties.
The main objective is to achieve simplification, to increase the transparency and strengthen the budgetary principles, that is to say, in particular less derogations, less special arrangements incomprehensible and increase the efficiency and effectiveness in the budgetary procedure.
It is actually very uneconomic to the Commission that, according to the contracts for X costs have to reimburse 20% and 30% for costs and often get together and to check the documents concerning very small sums.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0337/2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and cooperation, on the effectiveness of the European Union' s relations with the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission in these relations (2000/2051(INI)).
The latter relate in particular to the NGOs.
Of course, that is not enough, but everything must be protected from the cartoons on the lack of our development aid.
This again now, because it is a good framework in itself.
Mr President, I have once again today in Mozambique where the European Union has been responsible for a brilliant humanitarian aid after the flood disaster, but, once again, the reconstruction projects, which we have already allocated money, are behind pending signatures in Brussels.
In view of these realities, the need for greater involvement and greater efficiency in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment is essential.
We now have a harmonised approach to draw up country strategy papers and indicative cooperation programmes in all developing countries.
In addition, the creation of the SEM not provided a solution to the continuing disparity between 8 exorbitant administrative resources.
- (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the reason took a very special interest to be with you today in this debate on the maritime first package in the European Parliament, is that you are going to consider three important texts, which are an essential first step on an issue that recent events have unfortunately placed in front page of today.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford to, on the other hand, to enter into discussions with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals put forward by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority if necessary.
The rapid treatment and specialised has had result in the two Erika packages and six proposals has led to an enormous boost.
The lesson that this Parliament must retain this morning is that there is no doubt that the maritime legislation is around the world in a state of uncertainty and we have to start the process of implementing it in order.
We must give a clear signal that the European waters and ports we are not going to tolerate vessels that do not comply with the standards.
For the small vessels, we adopted a position of compromise between the limit of 5,000 600 tonnes, raised by the IMO, and that of the, raised by the Commission.
These data should be made available to the European authorities, state and port, as well as the public interest.
The cross-border nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can affect a region, bound to lead to the need for a Community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental pollution.
In cooperation in the field local organisations have been included for the protection of nature.
To amend the directive in the direction of greater rigour in its application, harmonisation of the legislation, particularly with regard to the selection of vessels subject to inspection and the scope of the different types of inspection, is clearly positive.
I should like to point out once again that there is urgency, in which you insist.
I believe that in the case of the limit the responsibility of the classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, the Council and Parliament must return to reflect together on this.
The black box, a black list and everything else seem to us to be excellent ideas and we fully agree with them, but I would like to highlight a few points.
In the face of this catastrophic situation and anarchic maritime transport, Europe has accepted the challenge and months after the Erika, the European Union will be in a position to announce that never any procedure has worked so quickly.
It is clear to what extent the logic of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is opposed to a high degree of safety at sea.
Finally, regardless of the technical measures to be taken, one of the largest sources of uncertainty will continue to exist as it is not all, in the area of the English channel and the North Atlantic, the exponential growth traffic arising from excessive of the North Sea ports.
I would be doing at the current President-in-Office of the Council have the situation in their own country.
Mr President, since the sinking of the oil tanker Erika have been tabled under political pressure a series of measures in order to increase the safety of ships at sea.
Some Greek vessels are simply collapsed, Mr Gayssot, without storms.
Thirdly, when we talk about reports of this kind, it seems to me that is becoming clear that it is not linking the relationship between, on the one hand, the supply of oil and, on the other hand, the fact that it is used still fossil fuel.
Therefore, we have the political courage to our environmental ambitions.
This means that, in this area more than in any other, it is our responsibility, and that we must, in my view, silence any sign of institutional self-respect.
For example, to Finland is of the utmost importance that Russia sign these agreements.
This is the tightening up of the requirements for the construction of vessels oil, improving the rules for port controls and greater severity of the rules for organisations of classification societies of vessels, which is a consequence of this.
Mr President, today we are debating maritime safety on the basis of three reports congratulate the rapporteurs.
With regard to these three new proposals on maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs, who have shown in extremely short deadlines that Parliament is very determined to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, controls, the construction standards and intolerable that is that similar accidents happen again.
Madam President, in the recent past a number of marine accidents considerable consequences, especially those in the who were involved oil, have shaken our continent.
Most of the 80% of accidents are linked to human error, but there is reason to human error, which are social order.
A parliamentary or parliamentary has used the term "traceability" .
The port state control directive is designed to monitor compliance with international requirements and not to introduce new rules.
Amendment No 18 introduces the port state control in relation to rest periods of seafarers, even if the implementation of the provisions relating to the working hours of seafarers is already fully covered by Directive 99/95.
I am pleased to see that the rapporteur has introduced in amendment No 21 a reference to the system of evaluation of the conditions and we agree with the proposal, but perspective must fit the wording to make it clearer.
Amendment No 4 and part of 18 on the point "kilograms" are not acceptable.
I can assure you that if a shipowner will include a ship in the register, following our proposal will have to think twice.
The Commissioner spoke for 18 minutes, and throughout that time, dozens and dozens of articles mentioned, and has rejected the Commission' s position.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a series of actions relating to the trans-European network, creation of collection and dissemination of the statistics on the stage of goods within and extra-comunitarios (EDICOM) (COM(00)0458 - C5-0401/00 - 2000/0201(COD)) (Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs)
However, to withdraw the resolution, I would like to express the conviction that, with a view to the Nice Council, Parliament would have done better its voice heard devoting a specific resolution and different from the important and difficult issues of the Intergovernmental Conference, instead of dealt with in the context of a single resolution which includes all the other points on the agenda of the Council.
(Because more than twelve Members rose, the oral amendment was rejected) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5-0337/2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and cooperation, on the effectiveness of the relations between the European Union and the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission on these relations (2000/2051(INI))
I have voted against to register my protest at the fact that the European Union can still act as should also in this area.
Despite the fact that the amendment of the existing directive on control of vessels and the Watts report correspond to the real needs, are steps in a positive way, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
We regret that the Commission' s proposal has not taken up the idea of the creation of a genuine European monitoring body, following the model of the "guards coast" in the United States.
- (EL) precondition for the safety of ships, for the protection of life at sea and the protection of the environment is the fight against the immunity of the enjoyed by the shipowners, the strict measures for the control of the situation of the ships and the imposition of strict penalties to shipping companies which violate the safety standards; also, improving the working conditions of workers in the Merchant Navy, and provide them with the appropriate training and ensure organic compounds which respond to the growing needs of ships.
The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, has done exactly the opposite.
The sinking of the Erika, in December 1999, is at the root of the emergence of the issue of maritime safety in the Community policy agenda and was under pressure from the European Parliament and the Commission proposed the texts that we have voted today, almost a year after this sinister shipwreck.
The current compensation funds have not been adequately equipped and this has become more obvious in the case of the Braer disaster, in which the Shetland Islands fishing industry has not been properly compensated for their losses.
Madam President, I have already said that a few years ago I had the opportunity to travel.
The rapporteur' s proposals relating to the harmonisation at European level are entirely positive.
This is an important paragraph as it concerns the classification societies of vessels.
It would be a great success, since the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a rigid Europe, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe and close to the people, therefore based on respect for national democracies.
The increasingly open fight for power between many Member States muddies the possibility of reaching a compromise.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU has efficient institutions.
In a week of the summit, I personally have hopes.
I am not in favour of linking automatically qualified majority voting and codecision and I believe that any initiative to extend the powers of codecision must be taken on a case-by-case basis.
To amend Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend qualified majority voting, which is currently in force in the Council for the trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
In this way Parliament is not the right of influence, is silence as a tribute to the partidismos, fidelidades and to the national governments and forgotten its obligations to the citizens.
I have also voted against a text which calls for the integration of the Charter of fundamental rights in the future Treaty adopted in Nice.
It is a mistake to divide the Union into two groups, and that is why I cannot support the idea that a third of the Member States is leading the way.
Your new role has put an end to the neutrality of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Austria.
In this report there are many things that the group of the Consevadores British can support, in particular the emphasis placed on the enlargement of the European Union.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have supported the report on the creation of a common European policy in the field of security and defence.
But also against the peoples of the European Union will have to finance, in any case, the new expenditure arms proposed in the report and which does not even have the guarantee that the military forces are not use one day against them, in the name of "policing" .
Just as serious is the pretence that a state which does not wish to take part in a mission will be forced to pay a financial contribution will the Member States participating in that war.
However, by military means outside is no solution, because it does not alter the fact the cause of the conflict and change public opinion.
· to military operations should be financed with a Community budget line and that the Member States have to contribute funds even if you do not wish to take part in operations (Paragraphs 49 and 50).
On the other hand, the EU would be that it would invest the priorities of the Petersberg tasks and address the attention to humanitarian and civil options.
I support this report by my colleague Maj Britt Theorin.
But there is no mention of the needs of this category to give way to the demand for a tax deducibilidad domestic services and a "adaptation of prices and costs to the financial possibilities of individuals" .
In fact, it is extraordinary that in the 21st century we have to recommend that the Member States should guarantee for domestic employees the right to social security and a proper retirement.
For many young people, its first contact with the market can be a black work.
What is more serious is when it comes to women from distant countries, which have taken this type of work for need and which have no other means of earning a living in a sustainable way.
The reform of the Commission will be judged on the basis of the facts, hence the need for regular monitoring reports which will present throughout the period of duration of the programme and the importance of the comprehensive assessment expected by December 2002.
In the recent past, various scandals and failures concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
In conclusion, I consider it essential to remind you that through this reform, which is essential for the future, we hope at the same time rigour and transparency on the part of the Commission in its day-to-day management, but also a greater sense of responsibility for its part, in the strict framework of its powers.
Conservatives we also support the statement in paragraph 7 of the report that we should ensure that democratic control and to allow operating the system of the three pillars.
(The sitting was closed at 13.15 p.m.)
We have received information - and I would like to add straight away that I cannot creerla at all - that the President-in-Office of the Council and head of the French Government is going to appear here tomorrow only 30 minutes to speak.
It therefore seems to me that there are excluded that we can have a well-considered position and the reasoning.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
In the course of the night work has been done in both these texts and the figures relating to the distribution of votes in the Council and the distribution of seats in Parliament.
Madam President, I would urge that the agenda is not deleted this report by Mr de Roo, because, as well as being very well drawn up at the last Council of Environment of the French Presidency, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday of next week, it is planned to prepare a common position on this matter.
Thank you, Mr Parish.
In the meetings of the Committee on foreign Affairs, Human Rights, common security and defence policy, in his capacity as chairman, is there and smoked.
The political basis is clear: to harmonise the market while respecting a high level of public health and consumer protection on the basis both in the existing legislation and in the development of scientific knowledge.
Is at stake their quality and concept of life, where the protection of the health is a very relevant weight.
This rule can also be applied to all drugs fun but dangerous, if no one else that the consumer can be affected.
Recently in the United States have won trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.
We believe that the only one possible and consistent is to put an end to the export of cigarettes banned in the Union for health reasons.
Instead of to draw lessons from the failure in Luxembourg on 9 October, we insist on a legally indefensible attitude.
I have analysed carefully what the Commissioner said to my colleague Mr Hume: there can be no massive loss of jobs in this sector.
Are the Parliament and the Council to adopt this proposal for a directive and to examine, among other things, the appropriate legal basis for this.
Maaten and others - there is a danger that, if this Parliament and the Council accept the restrictive interpretation which propose the leader of the European People' s Party and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this Parliament, the Council and the Community institutions as a whole would be tying foot and legislative power to the development of the Community institutions, which is so important for the development of Community law.
The weak point of this proposal is that it puts a lot of emphasis on the promotion of free competition.
In conclusion, since the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam the European Parliament has powers of coordination in environmental issues and consumer protection, and will work closely, of course, with the Council and the Commission in this area.
In fact this has nothing to do with tobacco, but the judgment of the Court of Justice could have been dictated also to ban the advertising of alcohol or the advertising of chocolate because, of course, the sugar can also be harmful to health.
I just do not understand why a majority of this Parliament wishes to propose to relax the rules export more than proposed by the governments of the Member States, the governments also represent the many industries referred to.
It is a proven fact that 80% of smokers to stop, but very few in the tobacco sector it promotes policies to help these people to stop smoking.
If we insist on to say to the other countries what levels of public health must set by extending export our reasonable proposals for the internal market, we will be in danger all the good work done by Mr Maaten.
We are in favour of a method of evidence recognised in all the EU countries, to be carried out in a particular country in a laboratory testing recognised.
Today we fully recognise the health effects of tobacco consumption, and both legislators and public opinion share the feeling that the time has come to adopt strict rules and regulations in this area.
Consequently, the Community rules will fit in future international agreements, thus avoiding the risk of barriers to trade and at the same time strengthening the protection of consumers and guaranteeing a high level of health protection.
It would be preferable to wait until we have dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
With regard to the laboratory tests, the amendment with a view to the adoption of evidence is superfluous, since the other article provides for the movement of goods which comply with the provisions of the directive.
Madam President, this report is not complications: at the present time, the directives on summertime are only five years in force, and then have to come back to Parliament for its renewal.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the provisions on summer-time, that we are examining, it is a good proposal.
I therefore believe that we in this House we should not take too long on this issue, because the Member States, as well as the population, have already accepted in the regulation of the summer time and this has been recognised as part of our annual rate.
In my view, it is important that the issues relating to the slots and the implementation of the provisions of the summer-time are, as provided for in the proposal, in the area of decision making in the Member States.
Would be more justified than summer-time money at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
It can accept the appropriate proposals on the basis of the conclusions of the report 2007 referred to Article 5.
It is clear that cannot be accepted in the human germ line intervention.
In fact, I believe that an ethical committee, working people that this does not work as main profession, we can give a slightly longer term, but on the authorities should exert a certain amount of pressure of time to get to work quickly.
These groups should be maintained in the scope of the directive.
But I am also pleased that we have managed to take a cerrojazo to gene therapy.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
These programmes are linked to the fight against cancer, with the prevention of AIDS, the prevention of drug dependence and the health promotion; and adjournment would mean an end to the projects and the work of the networks created for this purpose.
It is a very good thing to prepare the ground a priori, so that, even if necessary to make a second reading, be very close to the point at which decisions are taken.
In addition, we must take into account that both the prevention and promotion and monitoring will be increasingly important, and that is why we should give them more budgets and give them more important.
Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what is European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
In the European Union is currently the paradox that the abolition of internal borders to the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must live with the maintenance of 15 borders in the areas police and judicial criminal, that the Member States have difficulties in eliminated.
In conclusion, the initiative is an important step forward in the creation of a European criminal justice area, even though partial and limited, but is a response to the real needs of a huge majority of European citizens who so far have been practically alone when they have been victims of a crime outside the territory of their normal residence.
What we have asked for this group of people?
At the same time, we must ensure a special training professionals who will have to office direct contact with the victims.
The victims must not become people doubly penalised, first as a result of a crime and then as a result of the system.
Also, in this regard it is important to be informed in a discreet manner and professional relatives, in other words, to the family of the victim of the facts if they so wish, and that they can count on the support needed so that we do not have to know all through the press.
This applies regardless of the crime has been committed.
Never, in the field of the Member States and in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
In other cases could be obtained information needed in a language that is not the Union itself.
I am very glad Parliament' s positive response to the first text on such an important issue, so that the area of freedom, security and justice that we are building gradually can offer to our fellow citizens support in situations often it is difficult to bear.
Vote on request for urgent procedure
(Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
In this way, during the night of 23 to 24 November we have agreed with the Council on the main points of a budget that although it is not brilliant is reasonable.
That is why the Commission proposed a revision by EUR 300 million to what was the Council tooth and nail.
But I also know by the discussions that is even more difficult to draw up a negotiable position of the Council, to obtain a mandate and ensure that the national self-interest cigars lead to a decision pan-European more or less reasonable and acceptable.
I hope that the work on a recruitment common office, as stated in the modern German, that is to say a European Recruitment authority, really move forward so that we can overcome together the problems to be raised in the next few years to all the institutions - the Council as well as the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions, that is to say, the need for staff of the next few years.
The Council refuses to make this review - it seems that now we should have data - and I want to prevent: using the flexibility instrument two years in a row, two years in a row, in fact, in less than 600 months and the first to less than six months after the adoption of the financial perspective - is emptying the flexibility instrument because prevents replenishment and possible accumulation, which is due to a up to million.
This amount so important that responds to the existence of very high needs in 2001, will be financed mainly thanks to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument of EUR 200 million.
In view of this new element, the Council has voted at second reading a budget increased by 2.5%.
Finally, before you proceed to the final adoption of this budget, I should like to stress the efforts of the Council in respect certain basic budgetary rules in the field of put in reserve of appropriations, legal basis and classification of expenditure.
And in contrast to Nice, I believe that the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - are very satisfied with the result in general.
Ladies and gentlemen, the new emergence of sick cows BSE was also necessary to act immediately in the budgetary sector, in particular for the protection of health, consumer protection and also for aid to farmers affected by this situation.
In addition, the Council has laid down for the framework programme for reconstruction aid in the Western Balkans a multiannual amount, indicative of course, that it is compatible with this financial perspective.
With a great deal of effort, we had a couple of millions of euros.
I should like to thank Mrs Haug.
Think that that 1% of the budget of the European Union is very well spent.
You said, if I have understood correctly, that we must not use the reserve, because it was a contravention of the rules.
I believe that we have seen very positive things together with many other that I am not going to mention now because of the pressure of time.
Despite the fact that the expenditure on agriculture and rural development, which represent almost half of the total budget increase, once taken account of the letter of amendment, by more than 5%, the total increase of the budget is only 3.5%.
We see the great danger that in the next few years increase the confrontation between MEDA projects countries around the Mediterranean and the Balkans in spite of the fact that we all know that the money is urgently needed there.
Satisfied to have overcome the difficulties that were very close the road towards the aim to comply with the commitments made in Helsinki with the candidate countries, undo the Union, to allow the Europe of tomorrow must be able to continue to function effectively.
Are real, but not go as far as the presidency - which has shown, and I would like to point out, on a national basis, with a greater opening - I would have liked.
A new legal basis has been planned for the statute for European political parties and in the European Parliament should be given to it by the applicant status institutional laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
The last few weeks three important achievements have been achieved.
This is the purpose of the declaration adopted in Nice and the deliberations to coordinate at European level the fight against doping.
Between the threats, it is, as you all know, global warming.
In addition, in Nice, the European Union has set the necessary permanent bodies to define and have a common foreign and security policy: a Political and Security Committee, a military committee and a more European state.
For this cooperation, for their support and also for the reception, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the European Parliament, the French Presidency I thanks.
In these areas, in fact, the conference has failed due to the intransigence of certain Member States, in this respect, I have a deep disappointment not only about the consequences in the short term, but by the spirit of deadlock, closure, understand that conclusions can we draw from this position.
We have to pay a tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister Mr Guy Verhofstadt has been fought to the bottom in the interests of a fairer presence of the candidate countries and to make less unreasonable, although it is still too high, the threshold of qualified majority voting in this way, confirmed the great historic role in Belgium in the European Union.
We now need to examine carefully the text in Parliament.
I would point out, by the way, Mr President of the European Council, which costs the taxpayers pay.
And I see in it a failure not only in relation to the proclaimed ambition of the European Union to change the institutions to be able to welcome new members correctly by improving the effectiveness of the European Union, but also a failure in relation to another important aim, that very little has been mentioned, bringing the European Union and the citizens.
The good questions are for us the impressive who asked the human tide that, from the whole of Europe, has converged in Nice on the eve of the summit.
Firstly, the Fifteen have signed hastily and teargas the Charter of fundamental rights.
(Applause)
My Group is disappointed by this Treaty and concerned about the future that we can all take, so we shall oppose it with all our might.
Mr President, you have the floor.
Finally, I would say to Mr Hager that the instrument of closer cooperation is, in my opinion, a useful tool to enable Europe to have a dynamic and deliver the way, as I said a short while ago, I believe, Mr.
Mr President, I would like to know whether the competence of the European Parliament on summer-time is a new conquest of Nice.
It demoralised so far by the complexity of the clinical trials, laboratories are perhaps, in the desire expressed both by the Member States and by this House, the value of developing the market of medicinal products for paediatric use, even if it does not have the size enough to allow the return on investment.
. we need a new lease of life in the summer-time change, which was set during the oil crisis, in order to save energy, and that was extended until 2001?
Not always the protection of the situation of the victims in a criminal is due process.
Consequently, many passengers and tourists will benefit from this European initiative.
Mr President, just I would like to say a few words to welcome the President of the Commission, who is here, and the Presidency of the Council is gathering pace, and to emphasise that probably never has been expressed in this Parliament unanimity like this on the results of a summit.
The works is that, in six months, under the leadership of the French Presidency has completed, I believe, in spite of everything, its work on six key chapters.
However, my greatest fear is that the United Kingdom, France and Germany can now subvert the delicate balance of different sizes created between Member States and between the institutions over several decades.
It is difficult to understand how the Nice decisions could facilitate the enlargement of the EU.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I can be very brief.
For all of these reasons, I can only draw the consequence of that, when we vote on the Treaty of Nice, I am going to vote no.
Mr President, the most important result of Nice was, in spite of everything, which was signed a treaty, so that it is now possible to accommodate the candidate countries.
The real winners of this conference are Blair and Mr Aznar, the gentlemen "no" of Europe.
Let us then forget Nice, look at what is, I paid my hope with the great draft convention put forward by Belgium for your Presidency, because it is shown, there is a clean sheet, we need to change of method, we need to speed up the history: 2004 it is too late, is too far, it is too dangerous.
Instead, the spirit of Nice has been to ask ourselves how we can block, how can we intergubernamentalizar, how I can praise one at home as a defender of national interests rather than work to ensure that the European Union really progress.
After Amsterdam and Nice we are a Europe of princes, a Europe of national administrations and not the Europe of the political unification.
We cannot continue to tackle the lack of taking decisions by a qualified majority on the essential issues.
It is true - parafrasearé to Mr Bayrou, who have this seat since this morning, at the beginning, with the President of the Republic, and later, in a personal capacity, and llueven criticism, which, in my view, are moderate, friendly, but which, however, have yet to be criticism.
In fact, we must not forget that this is the first time since 1957 that reform, which is the model.
We are in constitutional systems, and the powers cannot be confused.
Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office.
But nor has it been incorporated into the Treaties and there has been a reference to the Charter in Article 2 (6) of the Treaty on European Union.
Finally, there are some positive aspects: the new version of Article 7 of the Treaty, the article concerning the political parties and their status; the right of this Parliament to demand to the other institutions before the Court of Justice: this is also an important factor of political control; the new formula for the European Commission, to include the so-called "Prodi lex" in the Treaty, to strengthen the President and the new composition of the Commission: reasonable compromise that I accept and work with the time; and, as my colleague Mr Tsatsos has pointed out, is the way forward in the future.
Mr President, we have already made a rigorous evaluation of what has happened in Nice, but it should be remembered that the Nice Summit began with a very limited agenda.
Let us look at things: it is not included in the work of the Treaty the Charter, not even a comment.
We want to demonstrate to the Heads of Government that we know best.
In spite of the heart attacks that the French Government has given this morning, the IGC frankly, has not concluded well.
Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French presidency during this debate, because it is present, I understand that the President Chirac, Mr.
Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that the Intergovernmental Conference has been out of date.
2001 budget (Continuation)
However, this does not mean that we could not have done something more and better, and I would like to divide the two areas.
This maximum obliges the Commission to set priorities within a limited budget, as must the whole administration.
With the vote which will follow in this debate ends up the long and complex process of adoption of the budget of the European Union for 2001.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis by resorting to Article 272, the financial perspective has been maintained, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
Let me just say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have not been without footballs and intends to continue this team playing until we get the right result.
We do not want in the resolution Colom is already a proposal for the revision for next year, because we want to wait for the assessment of the World Bank, but we share your criticism that this way of solving the financial insufficiency in category 4 distorts the multiannual nature of the Union' s external major objectives and the definition of the financial perspective.
For this to be possible, we will have to set priorities.
This is the only way will correct and properly the money that our fellow citizens are at our disposal.
If we estimate the supplementary budget that it is to be hoped then it will be almost 8% while in all the other areas - whether the policy of training, research, including internal policy, foreign policy, the administration, the pre-accession aid - are in total only a growth rate of 1.1%.
And as cooperation is very positive, in the next supplementary budget, in January, we will have the opportunity to proseguirla.
We are also in favour of criticise relations still not regulated between Russia and the Baltic States.
We are following with great interest to the development of society and the Russian internal policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy for Russia represents the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
Even if President Putin ensure the democratic development of his country, he is not automatically a guarantor of a stable and democratic Russia. the democratic order is not yet a reality experienced in Russia.
We must not let ourselves be insidious for our part, but we must build the Europe of economic cooperation.
With regard to the Caucasus, Mr Van Orden is absolutely right.
Who observe Russia from outside and will be isolated impressions of the country and Russian partners is in danger of State selectively this as the reality of the country that is consistent in its image of Russia.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia proposes enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism for this.
I would like to stress the seriousness that Russia is a political union with Belarus.
Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
In this respect, in the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as Parliament will know, launched a wide-ranging dialogue on energy.
I have high hopes to visit personally Kaliningrad in the first part of next year and not just because Immanuel Kant passed on to the throughout their lives in that city.
I congratulate the honourable Member once again on his excellent report on a very important issue in the next few years we shall refer again and again, I am sure, in this Parliament.
You puts me in a very difficult position.
Mr President, I would like to say that this debate is very necessary since the BSE crisis has an enormous impact on feedingstuffs, on the cultivation and import of animal feed.
The Council has expressed its concern in many meetings with Russia, at all levels, in particular to make it think again to excessive use of force and avoid a possible extension of the conflict, to take independent research and effective on violations of human rights, to support the OSCE assistance group in fulfilling its mission and, finally, to ensure the transport of humanitarian aid.
Mr President, on a point of order, it is usual in this House that the questions that cannot be respond orally sufficiently later respond in writing.
(Interruption from Mr Posselt)
This directive is 1992.
In this respect we will have to work.
These groups are obviously left outside this new proposal.
- (FR) the presidency and several Member States have already received correspondence the European Committee of sugar manufacturers concerning the Commission' s proposal, which will take into account in its deliberations.
Question No 6 by (H-0886/00):
First of all, I have to say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet replied to the question by Mr Korakas.
Now, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to move forward.
More specifically, has met the representative of the presidency, in this case the French ambassador in Algeria, with Mr.
We welcome the proposed provisions in this respect by the preparatory Committee and decided by the General Assembly on the way accreditation of non-governmental organisations, the preparatory process and the special session in September 2001.
The cooperation includes a number of references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
As the Council emphasised to the honourable Member in her earlier answer, the process of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters will enable better protect the rights of the people.
I would like to push him a little more.
In particular, it guarantees the political control and the strategic direction of a military operation of crisis management.
I would simply like to point out that the system of the Treaty establishing a difference in treatment between the taxes and excise duties, in which harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market - Article 93 - and the approximation, provided for in Article 94, of the laws that are directly on the establishment and operation of the common market, including those relating to direct taxation.
These three sectors are in a few words.
If there is still a model of behaviour that in cases of doubt all are fighting against all, this could break up the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe which is based on regional cooperation.
At the end of the day, we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, also a cooperation on both sides.
Mr President, our group supports the work carried out by Mr Baltas in connection with the report on the viability of the negotiating stabilisation and association agreements with the Republic of Croatia.
Mr President, over the years in which I was President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I had the opportunity to support many Croats in its efforts to freedom and prosperity which they, like other peoples of our continent, identified with their integration into the European institutions.
On the basis of the results obtained by Croatia this year, I have to say that I am confident that we will be able to achieve a rapid pace.
This is, of course, our criterion and the speed with which we have adapted our policy towards Croatia in the last few months confirms that.
We have a duty to Croatia to give his government and its people all kinds of aid in the next few years, and we are grateful to the honourable Members for their wise advice in order to ensure that that is the direction we must take.
It is incomprehensible that the Laskar Jihad had the opportunity to go to the Moluccas this spring with thousands of supporters to exacerbate the conflict.
In Timor, the militias blocking the return of refugees and the people who provide aid are asediadas.
On behalf of the Committee on Industry, I shall confine myself to three points.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
It is not the only country in which this is happening.
The persistent violence in the Moluccas, in Aceh in Irian Jaya leads to a great deal of pain to the population.
Tomorrow, we welcome the ceremony of the award of the Sakharov Prize.
According to the most recent news arrivals of the Indonesian archipelago there is an urgent need, the question of whether the situation is even more serious, yes, more precarious, for the President Wahid and serves the enemies which the rapporteur analyses.
If we want to help Indonesia, we must act now with money and facts and not mere words.
I believe that the report is extremely valuable to shed light on what has been happening.
It is clear that the difficulties in Indonesia has not been resolved overnight.
Protection of the Communities' financial interests
We must finally remove the obstacles to its independent activity, especially in the recruitment of staff and its structure.
That is why the Commission must finally fulfil through a process of internal reform your announcement that it is not going to tolerate fraud and that each one of them is going to be pursued accordingly.
I believe that this must be exactly the consequence of Nice.
We would like to see the Member States open up negotiations to have uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a federal public Prosecutor' s office community.
I would also like to know why was delayed until yesterday, after the Danish referendum on the euro, the publication of the document from the Commission on this matter.
I have tabled an amendment to citen the names of these countries, because it is high time to do so and shame.
I am sure that OLAF has an interest in shaping so transparent selection tables management.
However, we in the European Parliament must be careful not to see the beam in our eye for being so focused to see motes in the foreign: that of the Commission.
We are trying to put out a fire and suffocate ourselves with the smoke.
And nobody can understand, I do not.
With a view to achieving fully that purpose, I would like to highlight four questions that I consider to be fundamental in the work of the authority on budgetary control.
The Treaty is a problem for Parliament itself.
Commissioner, it is worrying that has to draw the attention of the Commission explicitly on respect for the rights of Members as guardian of the Treaties.
Relate to a number of guidelines for the action that the Committee on Budgetary control can be when find problems in different areas, including the recommended to the Committee on Budgets that freeze or reduce the amount of appropriations for the items in question in the next budget; not to authorise transfers of appropriations which involve the increase of the items affected for a certain period until they have completed internal investigations additional; to ask the President of the Commission to call for the resignation of any Commissioner affected by the serious problems that have been revealed: something like a Caesarian operation of the EU.
The report demands that are made detailed inventories of operational activities, a strict monitoring of the way in which the budget lines and irregularities as well as an internal assessment of the results on the part of the Commission.
Commissioner, the starting point for the transmission of information to the European Parliament is the EC Treaty and not the interinstitutional agreement.
But the result of this common position would be, if it is not amended, which in the end not only have a level playing field with regard to America but even within Europe.
I do not know why should not be achieved in this case, as has been achieved for all the other directives, to come to a compromise in the end.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy way to overcome some of the difficulties.
The first amendment relates to Article 4, which sets out what the competent authority must be for the supervision of the supply.
We now have a proposal which would lead to trouble, finding the most favourable court possible disputes at a sensitive time of a business agreement.
In the United Kingdom the regulation of takeover bids by means of the voluntary code of practice administered by the group responsible for takeover bids has produced very good results: a good example here a pragmatic approach of an extremely complex issue in which legislation would be less appropriate.
But, more than that, the best is that we can bring forward the Lisbon agenda to create a competitive and dynamic European economy.
In the European Parliament what we have to do is to regulate in a minimum at European level the major areas that lead to tensions in the procurement law, for example, presidency in the face of shareholders, major shareholders against small or companies from capital market.
Some amendments proposed by Parliament improve still further the text of the common position of the Council, as a result, its points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and that there is an urgent need for a more rapid transformation of the directive.
At the end of the day, it is not proven in any way that the proposed definition of fair price is better than any other, because the different definitions used at this time when the Member States work all very well.
The debate is closed.
In addition, it recognises the artist a right to information to be aware of their rights in a period of up to three years to traders professional cultural objects, what is reasonable, because they have to be accounts purchases and sales.
Consequently, we must address the Austrian legislator and not attack the European legislator that only creates positive framework conditions for artists and auction houses.
In addition, the subject we are dealing with, the need for a common position is all the more because only a common position will enable the European Union to influence at international level to defend the interests of the creators at world level.
I trust in the wisdom and vision of this House.
In Germany, for example, of the 7,000 artists who made available their rights in 1998 only 274, in fact, obtained any money for it and 40% of the droit de suite was intended to cover the costs to charge the sum.
In short, there is no need for a harmonisation of this kind in this area.
A similar amendment had already been rejected at first reading.
They have thought that the translations could continue in spite of this rather tight and difficult timetable.
However, we have reached a point at which, unfortunately, we can no longer postpone this issue any further.
Our committee proposes that this be brought forward a year.
This Parliament is, of course, in favour of these values and will continue to defendiéndolos.
The technology and the development of the markets will change in any case.
There is no legal basis that would make it possible to exclude competition in such cases.
A reduction in the universal services - the very essence of the postal service sector - up to 50 grammes would seriously undermine the capacity of the national postal servants to provide a universal service at an affordable rate for all irrespective of the place where resident.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British postal service.
We have made the safety net for the users of the postal services in a hamaca which are shot down by the major postal companies to continue with what they have always done.
I am very pleased that this notion of special services to make new technologies outside the scope of the universal service, a move on to the reserved sector of the weight limit of 150g proposed to over 300g when.
We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Commissioner, and we will not tolerate that there is such a situation.
For this reason, the European Commission has not proposed the total liberalisation of postal services in the second phase.
This is something that I wish the other European countries.
In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein asked him to face recently the French its position anti-liberal, or at least that appear in the holder of a newspaper.
In this respect, I could say something Spain which has created this fund and has been, and that to talk about the random legal bases which shows the substance, the virtual criteria in terms of its composition and the discretionary guarantees of their implementation.
We are voting tomorrow, and I hope that in favour of the amendment by Mr Atkins or by Mr Sterckx because otherwise I shall be forced to vote against this report.
Royal Mail is competition and I spread the letters in Malmö, Sweden.
Madam President, Commissioner, what has taught us the debate, or rather the controversy raised by Commissioner Bolkestein in its search for a liberalisation of postal services in the absence of any assessment of the first stage and in violation of rules laid down by this directive, which using progressive terms and value, such as modernisation, liberalisation, monitoring of technological development, is in a social decline of the quality of a country.
The planned protection of universal services by means of a compensation fund which would use the private profits for public services cannot be permanent.
These limits and delays have contributed to a debate in which it is often confuse the ends with the instruments.
Madam President, in dealing with this issue we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
Madam President, first of all, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Ferber because, of course, has done a complex, difficult work, which has had to try to find a balance between positions and proposals points of departure and arrival completely different.
I am afraid that the effect will be that the current monopoly can further strengthen its position at the taxpayers' expense and to raise the standard for the new applicant.
I am also pleased to see that our Liberal friends of the continent are giving example to the British Liberal.
I certainly accept that the concept of liberalisation per se has nothing wrong and that it can be beneficial for consumers.
Justified, since it is included in the logic of the founding Treaties of the European Union, which put forward the completion of the internal market for the free movement of goods and services in an environment of competition.
The universal service is the cornerstone of Community policy in this area and what we are doing is designed to create the right conditions for improvement.
Special services are another of the very important areas in which must be promoted innovation and modernisation.
He said that the opening up to competition of almost all of the postal market is inevitable before the end of the decade.
I am in favour of solid that there are guarantees that is always protect the universal service obligations.
That is why I cannot remain silent and not will remain silent while the future of the sector is threatened by the failure to properly overcome the challenges set us all in Lisbon.
Thank you very much, Mr Simpson.
However, I would like to remind you that this common organisation of the market is the main objective the guarantee of access to the Community market for their products.
It is absolutely necessary to find, over and above the tariff preference of EUR 300, a means to enable them to effective access to the quota C and evaluate the impact of the system of subsequent way in these producers.
For example, we cannot fail to express our concern about the banana production in certain ACP countries, in the small producing countries of the West Indies and in some countries of the West Africa have been traditional suppliers of the banana market with which we have commitments that we must not forget.
Therefore, I would ask that this report is supported in its entirety on the part of the Members of this House, as it was in the Committee on Agriculture and rural development.
While the United States first condemn the historical reference periods, and now defend their own historical reference periods.
Powerful interests are involved, particularly those of the Americans, which are not direct producers of bananas, but who have invested capital American commercial companies.
It sometimes seems as if the Commission, in the proposals deregulation in the trade and agricultural production at international level, outside even further than the Cairns Group.
It is a pity that the Commission and the Council continue to exist in a solution that can seriously compromising the production, particularly after 2006.
The successive opinions of the WTO does not say that we cannot give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers.
Thus, the transitional period should be almost years, and never less than ten and compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of the production of the outermost regions, which means that they should be included aid for institutions that market bananas there produced.
I hope that today listen to our arguments, because this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, even if it is EUR 300, may prove to be rather pointless in the facts as ACP producers will be hot-rolled steel by the so-called "system in order" arrival.
VOTE
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
The Commission rejects the remaining amendments.
Before the vote:
(Parliament adopted the oral amendment)
Report (A5-0376/2000) by Mrs Morgan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary control, on the reform of the procedures and institutions on budgetary control (2000/2008(INI))
The majority of the smoking do not know all the risks and on all the costs of their choice.
During the 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always kept to this rule.
I am afraid that their hopes will be in vain.
This is our last ditch attempt to put in packets labels and images which reflect the real cost of smoking.
Lehne report (A5-0368/2000)
I believe that this trial is still being right and important and, consequently, I voted against the report in its entirety.
With good reason, the Committee on Legal Affairs insists on refuse to a ceiling and a minimum percentage of less than 7%.
By voting against this directive, my group wishes to present a warning policy so that in Europe we do not ensure standards unnecessary.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin decades, how can we give a minimum confidence in Mr Putin, executioner of the Chechen people, godfather of the various mafias, which insists on clear up all kinds of opposition, civil society (Trade unions, political parties), in order to strengthen his personal power?
True that Indonesia should not this intensification of relations, as in recent years the leaders of that country have not been distinguished precisely by a large democracy or by large merits; however, we must concern ourselves with the Indonesian citizens and for this reason, I welcome the intensification of relations and aid.
The unit should only deal with the crimes committed by the Community employees.
The Theato report on the fight against fraud may find that the European Central Bank, no doubt to prove better his famous independence, has not seen fit to join in the agreement on the anti-fraud Office (OLAF).
That concludes voting time.
Or in to a club or not belong, and it is particularly important that we recognise this principle.
Ladies and gentlemen, does not help us to the change of name.
The tariff only system, however, is an important element, which guarantees the balance of the Commission' s proposal and it is an important basis in order to be able to achieve some progress in the Council.
The national and regional programmes for the promotion of rural development also include support measures for the marketing of these bananas.
Europe and the United States are working in close cooperation in defence of the values that we share.
We hope that we will be discussing on a new future WTO round, as well as on the consequences for this round the wide range of new bilateral trade initiatives are being discussed in the US hemisphere.
As you rightly said, transatlantic relations have been greatly intensified over the last ten years, above all, it is true, on the part of the United States, thanks to the President Clinton, but I believe that history will note that these new relations has also contributed Europe, which has played a key role in its development, through the Transatlantic declaration of 1990 and the new transatlantic agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
In short, it will be important to achieve a real change of direction and draw up a transatlantic agenda for the year 2001.
To conclude, I will refer to the Dominican Republic, which says that was supposed to the WTO should become an impartial referee common rules, in which the countries could learn to act according to the rules.
Secondly, even if it does not mean we can welcome the decline of the communist sham, the collapse of the Soviet Union no longer one superpower, the United States of America.
I know that the Commissioner is a good and constructive dialogue with Parliament and the committees involved with these issues.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
These objectives, the main and the secondary, will be the litmus test with those who have to judge the specific proposals put forward by the Commission.
It is well known that a solution - installation in one country with the possibility of providing services throughout the Union - could make an avalanche in those countries with lower taxation.
For example, in 1992 was an agreement, then considered minimum harmonisation, according to which the normal rate of VAT could not be less than 15% and the Member States had the right to apply one or more rates no less than 5%, in this case with derogations laid down.
We have asked for the European Commission ensure that there are no distortions of the market and that this report on the results to the Council and Parliament.
In short, the aim of this proposal is correct, but the method is unreasonable and if we really want to promote the e-economy of Europe, a right signal would be a zero rate of VAT for our companies operating through the network instead try to impose our other problems.
In order to be able to fulfil the requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we will have to take all sorts of measures to restrict it.
The only case in which so far not been collects no tax is the benefits in the European Union in a third country.
Positive discrimination of air transport has to stop.
The companies of other countries, outside the Community, do not pay tax.
The CDs are not so archaic and it would be necessary to impose a tax, as long as the programmes that are circulating on the Internet would be outside the imposition of a rate.
However, the solution proposed is designed to be technically unworkable and to put obstacles to the promotion of transactions on the Internet in the Union, at a time when all hope its expansion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing real teeth and collection capacity.
We should be looking for resources to promote electronic commerce and not devise new forms of taxing it.
The Liberal tell us that it is essential that the less State as possible.
The Primarolo group has drawn up simple rules that is necessary to apply.
As objection, the group that I represent in this House is of the opinion that we should address the fact that, as long as the newspapers have normally of reduced VAT rates, this reduction is not apply to the newspapers electronically.
The taxation of kerosene can only be to introduce, therefore, by means of an international consensus to ensure equal competitive.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthen one of the key arguments presented in my report on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, transport and tourism and which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that since it is of course politically difficult to reach an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we should look for alternative tools to achieve the same effect, including a rate for emissions.
In fact, the industry pays 100% of its infrastructure costs through charges of air traffic control and airport, which in 1998 amounted to a total of USD 4,000 million, unlike other modes of transport, such as rail and road, which are still heavily subsidised.
The current situation is not favourable.
In this context it has to be said, unfortunately, that emissions from air traffic are a problem, but at least in terms of percentage is not too great, is increasing and, therefore, we should not desdeñarlo.
The plan will be detrimental to the development of SMEs, both inside and outside the Union, especially in view of the proposal to reduce the exemption threshold to the prohibitively low level of turnover of EUR 40,000 per year.
If we are too greedy to deal with the issue before us, we will be really putting at risk the future of the important electronic commerce in Europe.
The starting point for providers outside the Community supply to customers within the Community should only be registered in a place cannot be a shift of tax revenue between the Member States.
Bearing in mind that the debate within the Council is continuing and the will of the Commission to deal with the issue of VAT properly and of electronic commerce in the short term, I think that the best thing at the moment is not formally accept Parliament' s amendments, but making them a reality as far as possible through the negotiations within the Council.
For this reason, I cannot accept the proposed amendments.
Thank you, Commissioner, for all the dossiers to the mentioned this week.
For its part, only three months after the accident, the Commission took up its responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures, which the European Parliament fully endorsed on 30 November.
In fact, with more than directives or regulations in force, there is an urgent need harmonise practices and get a better grip on the application of Community rules, in order to avoid significant differences and unacceptable in the field of maritime safety which could take place within the Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the area of maritime safety.
I would like to remind you that in air safety compensation which apply at European level and in the American area does not amount to the same amounts applied in other countries.
Secondly, I wish to say to the honourable Member that could have the ability to confiscate or freeze funds of a particular company for compensating damage or other, it is the French courts, which could establish responsibilities beyond the planned according to the criteria objectives of the current international regulations on pollution by hydrocarbons.
The Commission considers that these provisions are a step in the right direction towards the establishment of fair pricing systems, which, moreover, gives encouragement to a more rational and effective use of the road network.
As a result of the criticisms made, particularly in Ireland and France, changed the extent and now the British Finance Minister has given a different turn: now is presented as a right of usage rate for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
I am committed to ensure that the food available of consumers, regardless of whether they come from inside or outside the European Union, meet the highest standards.
Of course I understand the concern of the honourable Member.
I am sorry to say, Commissioner, I am not interested that your reply.
The question raised by the honourable Member is important.
In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the indigenous population all-ijaw of instigate violence against it and even to pay to the Nigerian soldiers to shoot against the demonstrators in the Warri naval base.
In his report adopted on 15 November, the Commission came to the conclusion that aid to the exploitation under Regulation 1540/98 have not made it possible to deal with the problem of South Korea price policies.
I believe that the whole of intent is very reassuring, but the reality is that in the meantime our shipyards are closing down.
Question No 38 by (H-0868/00):
Commissioner, I understand that does not wish to change its decision in spite of the fact that ten Member States are opposed to this duty.
This initiative is based on a Council regulation amending the Regulation, which defines the EGP.
I represent some producers and that is why I am a deep concern.
We are working on this in committee, we have not taken up this week to be Poul Nielson absent for a trip to the Balkans.
We are working on the safeguard clause and if Mr Clegg needs arguments to talk to the producers of beet, have at its disposal.
I would like to thank Mr Liikanen for his very positive and brilliant response.
I shall deal with this matter with my services once we know the budgetary resources available for the next financial year.
At the moment, the efforts of my services and my personal focus on limiting the gap between the parties and the future court.
In the same way as the courts in Düsseldorf, Munich and other German cities have been specialising in patent law, and there are also specialised courts in London, a Community court meets and judged cases relating to Community patents should be very specialised.
In order to prevent this situation interim become a permanent, on 13 July 1999, on 13 July last year, the Commission reminded in a letter to the Member States concerned their obligation to appoint courts for the Community trademarks.
As you know the honourable Parliamentary Assembly, the presentation of a complaint is not in itself the progress of the project.
Question No 47 by (H-0877/00):
This means that the Commission will only use of legal measures which has as indicated in the regulation.
The question is where must address these students to understand that when continue to this cycle of studies and are to culminate in the United Kingdom have a right to achieve results.
The king could be elected by a certain time of the Finnish Members of the European Parliament more commendable.
It could also be seen as an issue which affects competition, as it will continue to sell without taxes in the southern part of the Baltic, en route between Stockholm and Helsinki, that it will not be possible in the route between Umeå and Vaasa.
What we have to do is to correct this situation through the promotion of multilingual content, because they are a prerequisite for the success of the content industry of Europe.
The problem that concerns me most is that small businesses do not always have sufficient guarantees and commercial record tested to offer the investor.
In order to complete the ambitious development of the European programme e-Contenidos there is a need to simplify and consolidate from the point of view of safety procedures considered.
That is why the objective of the public support measures for the promotion of the content industry of the EU must also be the achievement of a high level of culture and the diversification of the same.
On the other hand, are communication networks, which need content to fill constantly its virtual area, and consider obvious the subordination of the content, purchase, its use, particular attention to the rules of production.
Mr President, I very much welcome the programme to the European digital content and I would like to highlight two points.
That is why I support the amendments calling for the adoption of specific actions in the field of new technologies.
First, on the social and cultural role of the digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament emphasis on the social and cultural dimension of the digital content.
The assessment and management of environmental noise
In fact, I am grateful for the support that the Christian Democrats and, incidentally, also a part of the Liberal Group, have given to this amendment in particular to limit aircraft noise.
This year alone, six years after the dates mentioned above, and under strong pressure from the French Government, the Commission has put forward a proposal to establish harmonised noise indicators.
This proposal is, in fact, quite moderate, if we bear in mind that the Scandinavian countries already have stricter rules than those we are proposing for the year 2012.
Orly Schiphol, Barcelona and other airports comply with strict measures.
Another important point that we are proposing to incorporate and that it will be essential in the context of the problem of the aircraft noise is the definition of other additional noise indicators, as well as the rapporteur has pointed out.
As a result of the lack of common regulations in the European Union, we have seen situations glaring distortion of competition between airports and a lack of equality between the citizens of the various Member States.
That is why the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange seem to me to be very important.
Mr President, first of all, I have to say that I welcome this report.
This was in fact the purpose of amendment No 36, even though I believe that the idea has not yet been fully developed.
We should take a close look at this aspect and take a combined approach in both areas, establishing limit values on the one hand to the various sources of noise emissions and, on the other hand, quality standards for emissions.
We need more time, and I regret that we have not had, although in general terms, I support the framework directive.
Once the Member States have given comparable information, the Commission will study the question of introducing Community limit values and other measures to reduce the number of people who are affected by noise, and will present a report to the Council and Parliament.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
These are the three criteria.
Thank you very much, my dear colleague, I sympathise with you, because, if you have the throat as a estropajo, I have as a bayeta, as we say in the north of the Rhine; the fact is that it seems that the flu is heading straight here.
If the problems of chronic diet is increasing, in addition, the risk of contracting cancer.
Then, it is also took the view that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
Tomorrow we have another stage in the programme, then the ball will be in our colleague Mrs Paulsen, the Liberal Group, who will have the opportunity to make even more the directive before us.
The Member States and the Commission now have a better instrument to ensure the full implementation of Community legislation on animal feed and, in the event that there are emergency situations in third countries, to take measures without delay.
We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and now these issues have been in embryonic stage with regard to the cities.
The planning process must be applied in a fair and innovative way.
The 2000-2004 multiannual programme for sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for this purpose, as well as the implementation of the Agenda 21 is an excellent way of coordination and development actions.
In order to achieve that climate change the threat we need to reduce the transport and leave fossil fuels at local level.
There have been many those who have suggested that the budget is too small.
The intention is that the main partners in this context are the Commission and the networks of local authorities, which have the legal responsibility to develop and implement policies of sustainable development in the urban environment.
The Court of Justice and even bodies responsible for resolving conflicts in the WTO believe that sometimes the precautionary principle applies environmental or in the field of public health, and sometimes even against Europeans, as demonstrated by the outstanding issue of cheese drawn up fresh milk.
The aim must not be limiting or compensation of damage, but the primary objective must be to avoid the damage against health or the people goods.
As long ago as 1996, the European Parliament came out in favour of a ban on the use of meat and bone meal in the European Union as a whole, in accordance with the precautionary principle, but only on the basis of that.
Never has been, and never will be, an absolute scientific certainty on new substances and new products.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is vital the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society in the political decisions surrounding implementation
And, finally, public health and the environment must take precedence over other considerations, particularly economic.
An essential condition for the application of the precautionary principle is that the concern about the possible harmful effects is to provide a scientific basis.
Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American, Professor George Carlo, whom the food and Drugs administration has entrusted in the last seven years a study on the impact of radiation on human health, revealed that there is a risk that the use of mobile phones strengthen the emergence of brain tumours, Alzheimer' s disease and injuries in the skin.
Mr President, the environment and public health are a complicated machine with a lot of functions to monitor and control in order to be able to speak and not be obstructed.
The implementation of this principle must at all costs avoid stifle innovation and economic activity, create timidity and opposition to industrial, become a means to discourage competition.
As you will have noted Parliament, the Commission' s position is in line with the majority of the issues raised in your motion for a resolution.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 noon.
Article 2 enshrines the right to life, and each time that Spain terrorism kills one person, the Union as a whole is affected in what is one of its most essential principles.
We do not want to replace the institutions legitimately established, but urgirlas to protect our rights and our freedoms without concessions to the terror.
VOTE
In addition, recalled the comments of the Council on the classification of the budget lines on the draft early retirement of the Commission and on the administrative expenditure of the fisheries agreements.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
That is to say, is no longer present.
The 23,428 licences obtained I will look like a few, but on the other hand will be happy to be offered area so that they can grow.
The consequence of that abolition, which began to be applied in the middle of last year, was, as we had planned, a dramatic interruption of the discharge pace projects and implementation of payments, the annual implementation of this Fund authorisations, at the end of June 2000, a percentage point is reduced.
The text is carte blanche ideal for closure in the practice of the General Secretariat of the European Parliament in Luxembourg.
Before my trip, they said to me: it is Christmas, and in Bergamo we welcome the Christmas and St Lucia, will it be Mr.
In addition, we object to the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to sell them.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the García-Margallo y Marfil report on taxation of electronic commerce.
Mr President, I will see to it enmendarme by the year 2004 with some explanation of vote in favour of Malta.
However, I say this with a certain solemnity: it is the most I can accept a Europe, in my view, too liberal.
The existence of a deadline incentivaría the postal sector to develop and to modernise their services, while at the same time would facilitate the planning and investment in the markets.
Will continue to exert pressure. consolidate its position with the who earn money with the distribution of shipments of more than 150 grammes.
The liberalisation of postal services, as was proposed by the Commission, is neither appropriate nor coherent, which is why I voted in favour of the report and all the amendments tabled expressing the same direction.
De Roo report (A5-0378/2000)
We also have reservations about Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, not still convinced that are compatible with the WTO.
The Commission' s proposal is unacceptable as it stands, because it represents a capitulation to the US dictatorship, this capitulation is unworthy of our European project and the social and environmental model we say we want to build.
This is a serious threat to the respect for national identity as laid down in Article 3 (6) of the Treaty on European Union.
I would like to make it very clear that linguistic minorities, instead of being engulfed by the globalisation of the Internet, have finding in this means a new cultural and economic openness.
Mr President, in the absence of other results, the negotiations that took place in Nice will be made it clear the intentions of the protagonists of the European Union.
The tone of the joint resolution is too simplistic.
The delay in the publication of the written conclusions, which are not yet officially available at the moment, four days later - demonstrates the difficulty to draw up clear decisions taken in the confusion.
The only way to avoid dangerous conflict in the future, is to maintain the traditional concept according to which Europe is based on mutual respect national communities.
The Nice Summit concluded on Sunday with an agreement which should lead to a draft treaty.
The resolution on Nice, voted on today, does not reflect this.
Finally, a reference to social policy, France had supported in the presentation of your presidency, but that, at the end of the day, was in one hand full of very little, apart from the declarations of intent and the titles of documents very vague and clearly inadequate content to the problems and the enormous dissatisfaction, of which the demonstration of workers in Nice was also important expression.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, is as before.
What is striking in the debate on Nice is the impression at the end of the Treaty does not father or mother, nor is it the son of no one: the French Presidency desdobló in apologise, rather than clearly accept the outcome of the IGC and its reasons; the political groups which correspond to the governments of the Member States multiplicaron criticism.
On the contrary, it reduces the influence of the national democracies by the restriction of the right of veto and that there is more power to the European Parliament.
If these consequences have been able to be calculated in my year of birth, in 1944, to be concluded the Agreement Chicago, possibly would not have been agreed a tax exemption for the aviation fuel and other products.
Given that there is no such thing as zero risk, scientists, or at least politicians must apply the criterion of proportionality, to judge the risks uncertain and face up to their responsibilities.
But this Parliament fought for this reduction in the resources for innovative policies be compensated for using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
We all have a part to play in this important area because, in the truly global market in which we are already, the new ideas, with adequate resources, and with a firm and realistic support - will be that we can maintain our place in Europe at the forefront of technological development in the new industries and in communications technology in particular.
In the previous speech were already hard words against the budget, and that is that EUR 400 million is really the minimum funding, so in the second part of the exercise should be to take the additional funding opportunities offered by the flexibility instrument, as has been pointed out in the report.
In my opinion, this will automatically, and not as the report concludes, a reduction of the European added value.
As we all know, in the European Union unemployment is concentrated in economic and technologically less developed areas, particularly in the Objective 1, as must the innovative actions have not only a simple technological nature, but which are inspired by an explicit will of economic development and employment.
When I come back to my own region, the east of England, and I find that not a single local government has used this money recently, I doubt that we have been effective everything that we have to be in the future to welcome these new communities.
Mr President, I would firstly like to Helmut Markov to thank and congratulate him on the constructive, extremely competent and serious presentation of the draft communication on the ERDF innovative actions for the period 2000-2006.
Energy efficiency and the aspects of environmental policy in these guidelines have not been forgotten. can lead to innovative actions by way of third issue, which concerns the regional identity and sustainable development.
However, we hope that the projects are choose at regional level, as Mr Berend has understood correctly in his speech.
The debate is closed.
That is why we call in this report and the three amendments which we have added that the Commission should step up its efforts to present a conciliation recourse to the WTO.
I believe that the Commissioner has to prove to the industry is doing everything we can in this respect to deal with this threat from outside our industry.
Finally, of course, we hope that, since 18 December, be examined at the meeting of the 6 Group the OECD agreement "ships" .
However, all the indications suggest that the final goal moves over and over again, so that we can never achieve it.
As you all know, the simple handling of this procedure will need more than six months.
For the large corporations, and its political lawyers, demand less State means that the state and its finances must be exclusive at its disposal.
But in order to achieve this, so that the process will enable us to consolidate the shipbuilding industry, jobs and to calm the families who depend on it, are still necessary aid beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not equal, but unfair and dumping.
The Commission encourages improving the competitiveness of the EU shipyards, but in the face of the massive cuts of prices Korean shipyards, the increase in productivity can be achieved is not enough.
The Council emphasised that the support mechanism must not distort competition within the EU.
The presence of the nuclear submarine damaged in the waters of the Algeciras Bay has already been made, unfortunately, in a diplomatic conflict between a nuclear and colonial military power and a second-class Member State, according to the last classification of Nice, which does not require their rights and doblega to children' s explanations.
When, through the doctor part circulating in the country in which in the owner - in other words, through the British press - it turned out that the disease was serious, rather than change centre I changed the rating the centre.
And, of course, we look forward to the Commission' s reply to check whether the objective has been achieved.
Mr President, I too would like to my first of all, to express my condolences to the family of local councillor murdered and with colleagues in the European People' s Party, and rejection of this barbarity fascist of ETA and the groups that are support.
I also believe that it would be appropriate to take the submarine Tireless to Britain to repair, as soon as possible, as will the appropriate climatic conditions.
You have asked whether the Commission considers that directive 89/618/Euratom on information to the population in the event of a radiological emergency, and Directive 96/29/Euratom on basic safety standards apply to the submarine and what measures have been taken accordingly.
In accordance with the usual procedure for public complaints, we cannot do this answer, although we can say in broad outline what he says.
One aspect of the Euratom Treaty is the transport of radioactive waste between Member States, but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and waste contaminated will be a part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without passing through any Member State of the European Union.
All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the Roca.
However, we see here a Member State which is public opinion in another Member State as it would do with any other country in the world, as if, in fact, there were no affectio societatis fifty years after the start of the European company, as if the European Solidarity would not have made progress in the slightest.
It is a fact that at some point the only submarine has been active in British waters was a German submarine.
There is but the citizens, based on their knowledge or intuition, turn your attention to the European institutions.
The lack of spending in new military equipment due to the cuts in the area of defence of the British Labour government will lead in the future, of course, to more frequent episodes of military equipment defective to carry out essential repairs to be withdrawn.
The competence of the Community, even though some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of ports to carry out repair work in submarines, technical safety issues of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine is withdrawn to repair elsewhere.
We should, in order to give them even more aid, to ask the Community institutions to strengthen the financial, human and material resources of the UNHCR had.
I would ask the Commission to come back to increase this aid and appoint always the UNHCR as a coordinator in all contracts concluded with the NGOs.
Therefore, must be able to have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move quite security and have the resources to fulfil its mission.
On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which was the ultimate objective laid down in Tampere for the common European asylum system.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to all the work that Mrs Ogata has made to the UNHCR and to wish Mr.
We think it is important that we are promoting a policy amnesty in Yugoslavia for this recovery that referred to, but we also think it is very important to condemn without doubt the resurgence of the attacks and terrorist activities at the borders between Serbia, Albania and Kosovo, because it reminds so worrying what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where there was responsibilities of Western powers.
In paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of our compromise resolution we very clear.
I appeal to the President Kostunica to clarify what has happened with Ukshin people like Mr Hoti, whose fate we have discussed here on several occasions and the whereabouts of which we know nothing.
I support also that an appeal is made to KFOR to disrupt any act of violence in the Presevo Valley.
I welcome the measures already adopted the KFOR to deal with the problem and I am calling for moderation to all parties.
B5-0916/2000 by Mr Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists;
This clause was agreed in the Palacio currency in March 1990, and I know because I was privileged to be there in the act of inauguration of President Alwyn, following the referendum on the put an end to the regime of General Pinochet.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution we will be voting in the favour of course.
It is important that the international community to exercise their right to democratic monitoring, not as interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, but as a political procedure precautionary and prevention.
The situation in the prisons and the police barracks, with torture and ill-treatment, is totally unacceptable.
This is exactly the same treatment that we see in Western Europe and, in view of the protests, the Hikmet minister Mr al-Turk has postponed the transfer to the success of the political and social consensus on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
It is a matter of urgency, and that is why we decided to include this item on the agenda.
It is under the 8 January next year, criticized for having taken part in a meeting of Tunisian opponents in France, which, on the other hand, he denied.
When the activists and responsible for these associations want to meet the day of the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of human rights, the police around their homes and the attending this meeting are attacked in the streets of men dressed in civil.
The second problem is, in fact, only a part of a set of harassment.
My group, as this Parliament, it is particularly sensitive to the human rights situation in Tunisia and the rest of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, show a little restraint, please.
The negotiations leave very well and I am pleased that these negotiations are gaining speed, and I hope that lead to the conclusion that the honourable Member referred.
Several Members referred to the situation of the prisoners in Turkey.
B5-0912/2000 by Mr van Hecke on behalf of the PPE-DE Group;
We could not, in my view, Mr President, Commissioner, retractarnos on this attitude.
In this context, there was the seizure of power by the military, as always, only helped to make the situation worse.
This attitude fits in well in the continuation of the policy of the French imperialism.
The Commission is gravely concerned about the recent violence.
The debate on matters which are topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
Unfair competition aid to destroy good environments for the shipbuilding industry, to the loss of know-how (Know-how) and jobs and may lead to long-term monopoly situations, which does not benefit to world trade.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
For this reason, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the contribution they have given in the process of tabling amendments and the technical committee because they have been some extremely valuable elements to complete the resolution.
The adoption of the social agenda by the European Council in Nice we are particularly pleased, and we hope that the Member States know to take this opportunity to encourage the development and the coordination of social security systems and care for the elderly, and promote other measures, such as, for example, the lifelong learning, to ensure their reintegration into working life.
The promotion of training throughout life - something that has already been mentioned by another speaker - is another issue which I also support.
Of course, the people of more than 60 or 70 years still can do many things useful, but it is a mistake to their age, their income dependent on his work.
Already, in its monthly report of July 2000, the European Central Bank, disappeared in very serious warnings in this respect.
As far as I am concerned, the Member States can deal with this problem much better themselves by means of their own legislation.
With its proposals for an active life for old age, society gains a whole generation.
We must keep the promises on pensions, but pensions must be guaranteed with own resources of these countries, without having to go to a common financial policy of the EU to make effective payment.
In the last 100 or 150 years we have seen the greater social revolution, which has doubled the life expectancy of the people.
Is the purpose of the mathematical extension of life, which has enabled the medical progress.
Claimed compensation - the whole of society was therefore affected, older workers left employment, but they are not employed workers young people and many jobs is abolished.
The outcome of the family policy and tax should be rather than men and women with family responsibilities can decide whether they want to develop a work or not.
My brother and I met him there.
Other future initiatives in the field of public health aimed at on all issues relating to health and care of the elderly and the promotion of a healthy ageing.
Mr President, I have accepted Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, that maintains that we need to amend the text and insists on the concept of demographic development in the face of the ageing population.
It is not a question of double operations advertising or promotion of each sector operators and public authorities.
Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in principle, was also in favour of the Commission' s proposal.
That is why it is very important to offer compensation and it can give concrete expression to very properly through advertising and promotion measures.
I believe that in the context of the marketing and sales should be given a central place much more lifelong learning in the training programmes, as the new technologies, the management of the promotion, offer entirely new opportunities for a modern logistics.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for his excellent report.
My next point concerns the issue of exports and intervention.
We must not pay for certain products that there is no demand, and make them propaganda.
Everyone has sufficient food, so that if promocionamos a product of course we do against the use of another.
Amendment No 18 and the first part of amendment No 24, which reduced from three to two years the frequency with which will be reviewed the issues and selected products in order to improve the effectiveness of the instrument of promotion.
Haug like the rapporteur, that is to say, as a man, and Mr Markus Ferber like the rapporteur, that is to say, as a woman.
It is obvious how small changes can achieve great effects in practice.
This is temporarily our last Friday in Strasbourg, that is to say, that Strasbourg is going to lose days of the presence of the Parliament.
For the rest, I would like to wish happy Christmas and a prosperous, but, above all, wise new century to everybody, but, in particular, to those who believe that it is worth be present this Friday, in the latter House of 2000 in Strasbourg.
