Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
We must organise ourselves as fifteen in order to be able to receive in good condition to those countries which are knocking at our door.
In Article 87 should include the scope of the existential assistance for social and cultural charity, so that these important institutions can enjoy a lasting protection.
Some argue that it is possible to create an internal market in Europe without agree on values and principles.
I welcome the important speech and substantial by President Prodi.
You know that this is a deliberate decision which took place in Amsterdam, to distinguish very well the two functions, the High Representative, unlike the Commission, not manifests itself in complete independence, but has the task of coordinating common foreign and security policies which are the responsibility of the Member States and in that case we must make it perhaps a broad scope the intergovernmental aspect.
He has asked that the Presidency draws Nice in the way for the future.
Indeed, we want to see more and better, but I think in all honesty that this is a good start.
Consequently, I trust that the European Council in Nice to be involved with this project and decide starting specifically as a project, not as a fait accompli after having adopted naturally reforms that we now need.
However, I have also indicated specifically that on the basis of this we can achieve targets extremely important with the Community method we have at present, for example, for better action in the Balkans.
Only if we manage to involve Russia in the West and the European Union, we can influence its policy and maintain contact and dialogue with that country.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0767/00) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on constitutional Affairs on the Charter of Fundamental rights of the European Union
Is this genocide and tries to completely eliminating the freedom of the press and the rule of law, whose existence is already precarious.
Precisely in order to respond to the expectations of this pensioners who is called Giuseppe Italia and live in Cremona and to which I would like to sail in the Po, I voted in favour of the Piecyk report on the promotion and development of seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals.
- (DE) the result of the vote in this Parliament will be impossible to achieve the objective of the directive, an objective recognised and for which we have already heard all the speakers and the Commission.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Skinner report, as I said during the debate prior to the vote, because I believe that the risk capital is important.
My group colleague Armonie Bordes pointed out yesterday way of only a minority has an interest in the transfer of Community money and contributions of occupational pensions to the risks of entrepreneurs.
Consequently, the Charter will above all to confirm the current practice, even a step backwards, of nation states, instead of representing progress.
Mr President, we finally have a Charter of fundamental rights of European citizens which contains an article, Article 25, entirely devoted to the elderly.
In principle this text may seem anodyne therefore, existing rights, but if we incorporated into the Treaty with binding force, as called for by the European Parliament, in the long term would tend automatically to the harmonization of national legislation in Europe; would give a disproportionate to the Court of Justice; would encourage greater centralisation around the European institutions; would limit the margin decision of each nation.
· should be avoided an overload the burden with detailed regulation, which should be reserved for the provisions of lower status.
I will go to vote for another letter, taking part in the demonstrations in Biarritz, on 13 October, and of Nice, on 14 December 7.
Progress towards the accession of the 12 candidate countries
In my opinion, several Member States have not understood until today the existence of this link and the hesitant progress of the Intergovernmental Conference can lead to major difficulties in carrying out enlargement within necessary.
We can only lead to in practice with lasting nature all the issues I have mentioned until now whether policy and leader of the candidate countries and the European Union - and here I agree with you, Commissioner - made known to the public that the enlargement of the European Union is in itself beneficial.
This is the formula enshrined.
Let me mention now the second orientation according to which the presidency wishes to make progress during this six-month period the enlargement process.
What I propose, therefore, is to work in this direction with the idea that we should examine, within the perspective of the year 2003, what are the candidate could join in that date.
I thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok, on his wide-ranging and explanatory report, as well as the other rapporteurs.
In these negotiations is not the case no "if..." , but "how" and "cúando" .
But also been achieved because the prospect of membership of the European Union gives them hope for the solidarity of the European peoples and to do so because they requires solid foundations political and economic.
Several countries have recorded, as regards the second criterion economic competitiveness in the internal market, progress so great that are very quickly to compliance with the requirements of membership.
Therefore, we intend to that coordination with the programmes of national governments, Parliament and other institutions is as close as possible.
In any country of the expected accession with great concern the opinion which sends the Commission annually on its progress, it will be issued again shortly, on 8 November.
We have chosen rightly the principle of differentiation, according to which each candidate country will be judged on its own merits.
This debate represents another opportunity to my political group to emphasise that the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and also Cyprus and Malta, is the best guarantee of future for all of us in Europe, in both East and West.
It is a matter of the utmost importance, and in spite of this, interestingly, has scarcely been public attention.
People spent jokes by saying that after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, enlargement remains to five years' time.
The next opportunity will be natural in connection with the following elections to the European Parliament of 2009, but we want to endeavour to make the greatest possible number of countries can join as early as the year 2004.
Moreover, are the six points of substance which we care about the method.
In fact, we are swimming in the very model of European construction, namely the simultaneous integration of all sectors of activity, beyond traditions or the specific characteristics of each other, are happening again in a trap.
Your words have the support of the President of the Central Bank Hungarian: "the European Union must give the appropriate signals" , otherwise, Eastern Europe sospechará that Europe does not work seriously on enlargement, something which could lead to a dangerous disillusionment on promises in Brussels - I quote the Hungarian spokesman.
But things must be clear: there can be no accession on the cheap.
This is an idea that force is also a great idea: we do not enlargements against the opinion, and the best way to make the enlargement with the opinion is its participation in elections, since the elections are an expression of democracy and the method of citizens' support for the political system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something briefly about the conditions of the desired scenario here by several parties.
I would be very surprised if they were not this pressure.
But I have already indicated that all countries are relatively quickly to the readiness for accession.
This means that the liberalisation of trade in the area of agricultural products is already agreed without Poles have the concern that collapses their agriculture.
It has taken efforts, but, in general, peace and trade have established links stronger between citizens, now even more solid with monetary union.
What counts must be the outcome of the negotiations.
The only amendment has been tabled is already covered in my report, but I am delighted that the Green Group wishes to stress the importance of equal treatment for citizens.
Here is not only a law on public service but also that there are opportunities for young people employees of the administration and proper pay.
This applies both to Latvia and the European Union.
There are plans to the linking of lita the euro in the second half of 2001.
Mr President, Commissioner, Poland, the country for which I am rapporteur, it is the biggest and most important, but, as we know, it is also the most problematic countries who are preparing to enter the European Union, so problematic that we hear voices about their possible exclusion from the first group of countries which will be included in the first place.
Poland, to the eastern countries, the countries that were Communists have done too many unfulfilled promises.
There is one point that always arises when it comes to the Czech Republic, which is the problem of the Roma.
Slovakia is not condemned to second group, and it is obvious that I wish to join when they do the Czech Republic.
At the same time, I would like, finally, to make a comment on internal policy.
Thirdly, as regards agriculture, the level of productivity is even lower than that in the European Union, it is important to ensure the total opening up of the agricultural market to capital necessary for the privatisation of land, the modernisation of farms and marketing structures, and to improve incomes.
Bulgaria is waiting with bated breath the time to join the European Union and NATO.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and with the present government the economy, at last, is giving real signs of improvement.
I trust that these matters become the priorities of the new Parliament to take office in a fortnight' s time, and the new government.
But we note also that the definitive solution, just and lasting should fully respect both the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, which is neither more nor less than the current international law, and the principles governing the European Union.
Malta has also institutions stable democratic functioning.
- (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary affairs, we want to make our contribution to this debate.
Must also apply. European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
This transformation raises some tough demands on people in the candidate countries ensures but at the same time its future and the future of their children.
Special attention must be paid - where I agree with the previous speaker - to the border regions.
In this context, must not be left alone to the Commission.
The candidate countries want to achieve a rapid economic growth, even if this takes place at the expense of a political nature protection previously established.
We are faced with a traffic single return of bad habits, many of them linked to health.
Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a European continent strong and united.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which is responsible in the domain of transport and the trans-European networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the various Community policies sectoral in favour of a global policy planning.
But first I would like to make the observation that the transport infrastructure will be of central importance for the success of enlargement.
- (DA) Mr President, I join in the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is now the largest task facing the EU.
There has been great pressure on social values traditional in Central and Eastern Europe.
EL PPE does not want to impinge on the responsibilities of the candidates on the pace of accession, since we cannot give a date for this.
The second point is the mention of dates.
There is also another reason.
Thirdly, the acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the various countries and for the EU as a whole depend - and this has shown Denmark - largely to be cut deficits social and democratic European policy.
Populism is epithet The the technocrats the attributed to the will of the people when it is expressed in a way that they should be.
Ladies and gentlemen, have a pause to eat and rest. we will continue at 21.00 noon.
In a more long-term perspective, we will have a single currency across the continent.
On these issues focus battles internal in each country.
We call on fighting for a different Europe, of all the peoples, which has been got rid of all such inhumane, in which the people are masters of their fate, develop relations of peace, freedom, fraternity, cooperation in of.
I have publicly praised the work of these organisations and, in particular, of the Romanian challenge appeal which is based in Birmingham and other organisations Irish supported by many people, including Daniel o Donnell artist, varieties of that promised a million pounds and recaudó that amount in Ireland and other parts of the world.
The Nice Summit must above all provide clarity about whether and how will act the EU on its part to be in a position itself to enlarge in depth and in time.
The Poles are wondering: are we will pay when we adhiramos or will we be second-class countries?
I am sure that, with goodwill and with the help of the European Union, we can find a solution which would enable the two communities live in harmony and prosper as they have done for centuries.
But we have also dealt with the issue of minorities, because the issue of the integration of these minorities, including the linguistic integration, is also important in these countries.
The requirement for membership is basically the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
We heard about the benefits of enlargement, and this is one of the areas where Lithuania shows us the way.
Imagine if all we like them!
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank and congratulate Mr Brok and the other rapporteurs, but, first of all, I should like to confine myself to Slovakia, more specifically, to the political situation of minorities.
I urge you to ensure that in Nice determine a date when to provide conclude the negotiations with the candidate countries more advanced - without mentioning names.
The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in its progress for the entry into the Union and, of course, making the planning of this aid even more decentralised.
The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups of civil society, the government and Parliament in this respect plays an important role and, as we have seen, also positive.
We are finishing with the division of Europe into two, and not creating a new division.
All this is contained in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and congratulate him very sincerely on behalf of our group for this report.
From this point of view, I believe that the issue of Cyprus is the most will determine Europe' s ability to see its characteristics policies.
Live near the Baltic Sea, whose situation concerns us all.
The political vision remains the same.
That is why I was very nice to hear Mr Klaus Hänsch, who spoke on behalf of the PSE Group, when he wanted the Commission to make a real judgment on the consequences of enlargement, and also on the economic impact that would ensue if it did not take place enlargement.
However, I share the opinion of our rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, that without transitional periods cannot operate in the interests of both parties. precisely as an MEP of a border region which, like Mrs Schierhuber, has a farm agricultural near the Czech border, it gives me very important arising areas common economic more approximate without any major problems and that lead to positive results on both sides.
I would like to stress three aspects such as social democrats.
The EEA, in which are included issues under the first pillar, will allow access of the economies of the candidate countries to the internal market and will give young people and science the right to participate in exchange programmes, but, on the other hand, will not force the EU to widen its system of agricultural subsidies to these countries. in this way, the EEA Agreement would give a positive impetus, primarily, to the economies of the candidate countries - very needy growth to make their societies in a position to join - but also to the national economies of the EU, since it is estimated that, through the economic growth, we could cover even two thirds of the total costs of enlargement, and perhaps even more if we went to the model of the EEA.
Secondly, let us say no to the idea of big-bang which consists of accepting a large group of candidate countries simultaneously, because that would run counter to the principle that the countries are accepted on its own merits.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process within the meaning of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission Prodi.
In this context, I would like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council and point out that recently the Council responds with a great deal of ground to written questions of Members.
It is worrying that this is happening in a country that is going to join the European Union.
Request for its preparation.
- (SV) Mr President, today we are going to discuss and perhaps we will vote on three reports dealing with this matter, two of whom are mine.
All those involved in the food chain will benefit.
The safe food have a cost throughout the chain.
We must therefore support Mrs Paulsen and the Commission, and adopt the principle of no-disolución, to give certainty to animal feed and protect really to European consumers.
The 1999 directive is a text thoughtful and can now show some success, since we have managed to reduce demonstrable damage the burden.
But simply accept the possibility of "dilute" products is not the solution.
Very quickly, that we must insist on amendment No 37 on dioxin.
On this point, we agree.
Therefore, the result is that, as European consumers, we will have to continue buying meat and milk and blood products produced in world markets with feed which bear any relation to the thresholds and the limit values which have established as a European Union, and with a system of production of animal feed which is raw materials on the international markets, free of any mixing principle and formulation before marketing their products in the territory of the Union.
Before the second reading, we need to know the Commission' s view on how will be the assessment of the risk factors.
On the contrary, it would be unfortunate if they were adopted, for example, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, since that would mean that would disappear the option for Member States to intervene promptly towards the new dangers that are discovered.
Consumer protection begins with animal feed, for the content of feedingstuffs, your statement and, finally, its administrative control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Paulsen on undesirable substances in animal nutrition deals with an important subject, as all the important issues, raises many discrepancies.
Mr President, the discussion on this excellent report by Mrs Paulsen nuances had very emotional in a number of points, and I believe that, once completed this debate, we must assume that the required the industry fodder for cattle are certainly strict but then we can do that quality is amended adding components.
These three proposals address, individually and collectively, the serious shortcomings that the dioxin crisis has brought to light.
Amendment No 33 deletes the possibility of re-exporting the country of origin appropriations not permissible.
Amendments Nos 41, 42, 43 and 44, which propose introducing the possibility of dilution under certain conditions of raw materials for contaminated feed, are also unacceptable.
That should suffice, bearing in mind our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering the whole food chain and animal feed in the new proposal on the food authority.
Commissioner Byrne, following this directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs lies essentially an old problem, namely, the open declaration.
This is already a profit that has brought me this morning' s sitting.
If we do so, if we transponemos quickly and also if if if the codecision procedure, no doubt we will have gained a lot, and I am sure that we will be able to stand very firm and unanimous before the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the future too can happen again or at least it cannot be ruled out that in feedingstuffs are introduced raw materials polluted.
The BSE scandal was the worst example and better known.
Common sense, as our rapporteur has said - would obviously be a label be open, to present the list of ingredients.
I believe that the technical qualifications and competence of the members of the Committee on Agriculture to judge on issues relating to agriculture and also with animal feed is indisputable from the point of view of the search for a solution with a practical guidance and practicable, farmers and consumers concerned can implement and understand.
So much for the positive side.
In my view, is a legitimate right to information must be satisfied.
I would ask, Madam President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries and on my own behalf, to send the Parliament' s condolences to the families of the victims and the local authorities of both Britain and Marín, Galicia, where they are most of the victims.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Is anyone opposed to the tabling of this oral amendment?
That is precisely how the rapporteur explained things.
The majority of its technical proposals deserve to be supported enthusiastically, for example those relating to food safety, the decommissioning of nuclear power plants first generation, environmental protection, the fight against social dumping, essential to the code of conduct for companies in the West when working in the East, etc. the task is enormous, and also absolute priority.
At the same time, barriers to overcome are considerable, especially at the level of the budget.
Enlargement to thirteen countries not only change the geopolitical context of the European Union, but also change its structure, because the total population will increase + (28%), but at the same time it will be the number of "less-favoured regions" .
In this context, we must bear in mind that, because of its strong economic weight and social a agriculture and food industry competitive will have a decisive importance to the success of the process of transformation and restructuring of the candidate countries.
In this respect, I would like to see the outermost regions, including 6 out of every 7 are still in the group of the 10 poorest EU benefited from the Structural Funds, not only on the basis of single criterion of GDP, but also on the basis of geographical indicators, demographic and above all social.
As we reject, for the sake of the French, we cannot, in all conscience, accept its extension to the countries and peoples to the east, hardly released from the communist dictatorship, which cannot yet know the trap technocratic and totalitarian in wishing to fall.
We should have content ourselves with national reports and, as far as possible, a resolution brief, but full of content.
The current system, with subsidies, grants and quotas must be replaced by free trade and the adaptation to the markets.
The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language on which it has been used within the European Union.
For me to speak enlargement does not recognise the party or non-party of some countries to Europe.
Our neighbouring country has worked with determination over the last ten years in order to comply with the criteria of accession.
Latvia has its place in this Chamber, not only because overall, its progress give you the right to this "confidence" essential to complete successfully negotiations of this kind, but, above all, and above all, because in Europe is at home.
Gawronski with this report, and I believe that Poland is the rule, among all those who have applied for membership, which deserves more than others our support, given that, without the very important initiatives of Poland, would not have fallen communism and today we would be talking here about this problem.
This may not be so obvious to the population, which remains largely eurosceptic.
I urge you to Prague to welcome this signal, this request, this request to establish a dialogue and, to reply to him and ensure, together with this House, to make it possible to overcome the legacy of a nationalist was.
I welcome the Wiersma report on Slovakia' s application for membership of the European Union and I agree with most of the conclusions reached by the rapporteur.
I am pleased to take this opportunity to send a I welcome in particular the elderly and pensioners of the Bulgarian Republic. as stated in the report by Mr.
If Romania is still the European Union and adapted its institutional structure and its policies in order to cope with enlargement, I see no reason why that Romania should not be admitted to the Union.
Whatever solution is to be taken with regard to the settlers, and it is one of the difficult issues, together with the return of land on both sides, this is too harsh, if we do not do some qualification.
Unfortunately, some of the points that the Committee on foreign Affairs, Human Rights, common security and defence policy discharged in the draft report on Cyprus' s membership application to the European Union does not make matters easier.
This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of goodwill of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey.
Stenzel report (A5-0243/2000)
Unfortunately, I had a slight food poisoning in the European Parliament.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the prohibition of the dissolution proposal on the European Commission.
We must urge the countries of the ASEM in this resolution to put pressure on the military regime in Burma to restore democracy.
We are partial in our approach and implementation.
We cannot afford to be overcautious.
Some important aspects of the regulation are: firstly, the regulation of the burden of proof.
Equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the EU.
That is why we need legislation against discrimination.
Partly as a result, we have before us a great deal of amendments legal and technical aspiring to ensure a level of equal treatment against discrimination on grounds of race, on the one hand, and on the grounds of religion, disability, age and sexual orientation, on the other hand.
We had to make an effort to balance, moderation and good legal technique and his report reflects, in my view, these qualities.
I also believe that the cases of discrimination are not as many as to merit legislation.
In the action programme there are not enough funds to replace this work taking place in the fifth framework programme and, hopefully, will be followed up in all the other framework programmes, although we must ensure that are compatible.
We all agree that we must fight against discrimination, but opinions vary on how to do it, to what extent and at what methods.
I was able, in committee, indignarme against the fact that experts could also be outside NGOs and yet have things to say.
We are also very satisfied with the provisions of the directive that makes it clear that equal treatment for disabled also means also expected of companies to make adjustments in the workplace.
Only then will we see effectively combating discrimination in all areas of human coexistence in Europe.
After all, as we learn from the great democracies, anglosajonas racism and discrimination are fought by liberal democracy and not with the restriction or the gradual erosion of freedom of expression and freedom of expression, association and economic.
We have a proposal which brings homosexuality in the same category as the Holy marriage.
Strengthening the positions of the European Union to specific situations suffered by its inhabitants with regard to discrimination and equal treatment.
I would also like to comment on the issue of exclusion religion.
There are those who I expressed concern about the possible interpretation of the recitals relating to Article 1 that, once again, may seem unclear, but make a distinction between sexual orientation and behaviour.
So there is hierarchy in discrimination.
In New Caledonia preference is given on basis a a a skin.
The first positive element of the directive is the universal approach in which we conceive the treatment of discrimination, which is of particular importance if you want to have a proper implementation of the directive.
So those who come here to say that Europe must not collect in a directive values which we all want to defend, confusing.
We should not interfere in these achievements we reached with so many efforts.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
Experience has taught us that the promotion of legislative measures to combat discrimination is essential, but it is not enough.
We must avoid red tape absurd, that the only thing that will manage to reduce Europe to entity a a a politically correct, but meaningless.
I believe that this Parliament embellished as if it were a Christmas tree the little advanced legislation that the Commission would have liked to put on the table.
I would like to start by thanking both rapporteurs, Messrs Mann and Cashman, this excellent report.
I will accept the amendments which seek to highlight the importance of preventing and combating discrimination.
The second category is intended to clarify the text of the Commission' s proposal and the third covers a large number of amendments which seek to adapt this proposal to the directive on race, adopted last June.
In particular, Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 20 propose deleting the reference to discrimination on the grounds of race and ethnic.
I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to the natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment applies only to individuals.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
We cannot expect a public support operations of establishing peace, if our troops are exposed to die as a result of shells from weapons that we ourselves have supplied.
In my own country, to own a escopeta needs a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo of my garden.
Another important point is the ban on the export promotion and marketing of equipment and know-how used to inflict torture.
Having said that, I would naturally like to congratulate Mr Titley on his excellent report.
We must extend our examination, on the one hand, in addition to the issues of legally binding, also other aspects outside equipment for strict military use, such as the disarmament and to increase the effectiveness of the body of police and customs authorities, and then, on the other hand, to candidate countries, as has just been mentioned by Mr Wiersma.
The controls on the movement of money strongly makes it more difficult to circumvent the provisions on trade in arms.
The aim of the annual report is discovered possible improvements.
The European Union is currently examining the possibility of continuing the project after its expiry in November of this year.
We have defined a methodology and indicators and will be presented at the next Council "research" .
Thank you, Commissioner.
With regard to the problems of SMEs, of course, that, in the framework programme, SMEs have their part as planned in the budgetary decision.
This is at least what appears to colegirse the debate on the budget in Greece; and the fact is that many invoke the views of the European Union. is that true?
As regards the pluridisciplinaridad, I share your opinion.
The first is that mentioned specifically in his report EU participation in national programmes.
It would not be possible to speak because of European research area if we only represent 5% of this research.
Thank you, Mr Busquin.
On the one hand, and after the effort made to fully commit funds at the end of 1999, requests in body at the beginning of this year for the financing of new projects were necessarily very small.
But I repeat that Portugal did well in the previous period, but what I would simply like to point out, and I would like the figures for 26 September, is that the funds actually committed by Portugal and for the new period (I am only commissioner for a year) reach 2.6%.
Question No 2 by (H-0730/00):
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions from uses and consumption on hydrocarbons does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in cases where the Member States promote by means tax specific sector of industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case fiscal aid state, which amounts to a subsidy.
For example, nuclear energy is a case very clear and timely.
Subject: budget line on minority languages budgetary resources that the European Union spends since 1983 in favour of minority languages were a constant increase until 1995, when reached its maximum amount, EUR 4 million.
Mr President, the Members of this House I am sure you know that the Structural Funds - and this is a novelty - spend a lot of resources for cultural activities, because I insisted, Michel Barnier, in which they are not only invest in roads and airports, but also in people.
So that next year the Commission does not intend to formulate new financial commitments in this regard.
In relation to the specific financial proposal, I cannot adopt a position, because we must respect the normal procedures.
- (SV) I thought in many alternatives.
And it is a reality which we must face, because we are talking about millions of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe.
Do the rules governing the treatment of products hunting, for example the elk, also apply to meat used for consumption itself?
If these rules would apply to the meat they consume hunters, would mean a bureaucratic disaster for hunting elk.
When we have completed this report, I intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of inadequate compliance with time limits on working hours in the coming weeks.
At the meeting welcomed with the Group of the Greens already examined this issue.
Our question was clear: what steps taken by the Commission? Mr.
General product safety also obliges manufacturers to provide consumers with information on the risks.
The case of Maryam Ayubi is extremely worrying.
Question No 14 by (H-0745/00):
The attitude of the EU on this ministerial meeting in Vientiane and if, in fact, must take place or at what level must be represented the EU as it will depend on the evolution of the situation in Burma by December.
One final comment.
Elections are an important step for the people of Kosovo to be involved in the administration of their communities.
I can tell you that the development of these elections has been more democratic, better than the elections in our own countries, in which on many occasions I have participated or I was an observer.
But what we saw as a principle and not in any way, as the end of the process.
She calls for better control and more closed on trade in arms and for greater transparency.
Now I find that every year increase contracts for weapons and arms components.
We cannot take real decisions based on information and realities apparent.
The provision whereby have been kept together in the same DG should be subject to review.
Although these institutions must have the option to appoint an internal auditor, it is enough to impose certain minimum requirements audit the financial controller.
This proposal does not have the unanimous approval of this Parliament as well knows the Commissioner.
Therefore, we have no objection to creating an internal audit service independent, to which today we give the green light to the report by Mr van Hulten.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
Modernising the administration is urgently needed in our view.
An independent audit is essential to avoid mistakes.
The money must be spent in the future way of objectives and more effective, and, of course, be better guarantee funds are used for the purpose for which the allocated the budgetary authority.
As regards the proposed amendments, I should like to state very briefly: the Commission accepts the introduction of additional recital.
That is why I should like to thank you for your suggestions and your advice.
I would like to summarise the proposals in this report which I think are most important and viable specifically: firstly, the creation of a group of experts composed of personalities of recognised standing, appointed by the Member States, to help establish parameters minimum protection of minors; secondly, the creation of a code of self-regulation between all operators in the sector; third, the possibility of promoting and become accessible systems filter both for television and for the Internet.
Unfortunately, I cannot subscribe to requests from the Liberals.
This remains essentially the responsibility of the Member States' legislation, which does not exclude, however, the possibility of a consensual agreement at European level on certain indicative values, through dialogue with all the parties involved.
However, and equal other circumstances, I think that it is up to parents dissuade their children to see that this type of programme at home.
Parents need special support in this area, which must include the following: common parameters for the media protection of minors throughout the territory of the European Union; the installation and the possibility of having filter systems at affordable prices; legal provisions relating to the protection of minors and the responsibility of the media, companies and providers of public and private sectors.
Then I am surprised, and this is a euphemism, to hear some say, during discussions in committee, all the evidence harmful influence which may have, on children, the television violence in all its forms.
With regard to the introduction of a code of self-regulation, it should be noted, particularly from a technical point of view, that in certain Member States broadcasters have already introduced codes of adjustment for televisions which should enable parents cut off the flow.
The debate is closed.
In particular, my report replaces the valuable international generalisations for a referral back, in fact, decisions to the Member States.
This would be the least to give us this area of freedom which is a fundamental right of every citizen of Europe.
There are still things, Mr President, that have not been paid since 1996.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Evans and Mantovani, the work carried out.
I would recommend this report to the House and recommend support for the amendments tabled by Mr Evans.
Our human resources are our future only in a world where knowledge is what counts.
Will not solve the problems green papers, white, or black soft, but with concrete action.
But the European Parliament, and it is its role, Parliament pressed for researchers were despite everything included in the text.
Today we visit at a crucial time for the future of European integration.
However, we know that the process is not complete and that their inconclusión threatens their vitality.
If we do not say now, at this delicate and tumultuosa stage of European and world history, when can we?
None of us can pretend now know exactly when and how sequence we will achieve these objectives, but we all know that believe in them and deseándolos fervently hope, we will go the halfway stage.
We must ensure that women can benefit from the work induced while prevent the recurrence the same inequalities in the more traditional industries: less specialized jobs, part-time sometimes not elected contracts, insecure and difficulty of access to the managerial positions.
Will be presented to the Council a proposal for indicators which will enable us to gauge the progress made in this respect.
Finally, in a nutshell, the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reaffirms the integrated approach of equality with gender mainstreaming and specific guidelines.
I think in particular of the violence suffered by them, one of the priority issues of my government action and also mobilises in particular - I know - to you.
We know that measures to reconcile family and professional life encourage particularly women, although still missing studies on the current situation of the family and the role that women play in it, which is no longer the traditional, since society has changed a great deal and, at the same time, the family structure.
Sometimes, even colleagues in this Parliament believe that there are, but this is not the case.
I should like to conclude by saying that equal opportunities begins at home.
This position seems to me embarrassing and ambiguous and deserves, I believe, Reflection for projects proposed, because it is not certain that with all this desemboquemos in practice.
In this area there is no equality.
The image of the European woman, who discovered over the pages of our report, our directives, does not square with these women Danish opponents mostly to the euro.
In this respect, I think it significant that the report insists on having to strike a balance numerical in all sectors of society, for example in the labour market.
That is why it seems to me that an opportunity has been missed in this report because marriage and the family are completely marginalised.
That is something that should also take account of the Committee on Women' s rights and equal opportunities.
We have heard that the previous presidency of the first Council Council Council Ministry of Equal Opportunities for their country country country.
Salaries means of women are still below, on average, in almost 28% of men's, which contributes to that women are the majority of the poor population and hinders their participation in social and political life.
This is excellent.
We are now seeing in Europe a impoverishment of women employees in France and also, where 15% of them live, at the end of the day, with fewer than 3,650 French francs per month.
Not all countries have managed to follow his example and I hope that the example of France end growing in other countries.
Obviously, the history of women is very long.
We must help really candidates to be at the level of the acquis communautaire.
But I would need your help.
It is not the case, but it is a text satisfactory and, on reflection at length and after a wide-ranging debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs chose not to table amendments.
The Legal Affairs Committee, after a long debate, understood not that which maintain that legal uncertainty for six years, that three years, which is the deadline laid down, it is more reasonable so that, with the appropriate means and a medium-sized diligence, one approach would be to establish whether there has been no or irregularity in a statement.
This is amendment No 15, relating to fraud.
The goal of achieving especially communication a a a high-quality with legislation sufficiently flexible, with an improvement procedure of the greater the adaptation of the provisions in the field of customs formalities, responds to one of the requirements of the single market and has been achieved, so much so that even many countries have been based on it in order to be able to participate quickly in international trade.
Palacio, his efforts and the interest with which they have worked on drafting this report.
Welcome
I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote that will, but the truth is that we must verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
It is recognised that knowledge of foreign languages is a necessary precondition for mobility.
We also believe that the Member States themselves should decide taxes who wish to implement.
I regret that a much-needed proposal to introduce a prescription deadline of allowing retain the documentation for a limited period has not obtained a majority of the votes.
During the negotiations on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we welcome the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or philosophical beliefs not sectarian, disability, age or sexual orientation.
My final point concerns the budget for this programme, namely EUR 98.4 million, a sum which is, of course, inadequate for the actions planned.
The arguments put forward in this amendment follows explicitly that its purpose is to intervene in the stipulations age of Member States, which are, however, perfectly justified on the grounds of psychological development and have no impact on the working life.
In my opinion, also needless everything stipulated in the new Article 12 (A).
With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
- (SV) the Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equality in the workplace.
But this only says something of the workforce of an internal audit service and nothing of the financial importance and usefulness of this service.
The EU has decided to set up a military capability common to meet the objectives so-called Petersberg (The fight against the crisis and conflict resolution outside the territory of the EU) and yet does not have a common defence policy.
The world would be safer without weapons.
With this resolution does not want to reduce radically arms sales to promote a policy of disarmament, but only regulating them to ensure more of the benefits of industrial groups are concerned.
The Commission Communication recognises the problem but not proposes concrete measures is because because because the logic of the liberalisation of the market and of competitiveness, and that no proposal concerns the harsh reality, especially for children, the profligacy of multinational companies, which, in their pursuit of profit, ignore the impact of its programmes and products and move the whole responsibility parents, also inviting them to consume new products to protect their children.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that the measures aimed at protecting young people programmes violent and harmful should not be limited to traditional television, but to apply all the media.
With an average of three hours a day, is the human activity more important after the dream, and for adults, after the work.
Furthermore, women are often posts "flexible" ; the temporary contracts or low salaries are typical of the sectors that employ mainly women.
That continue to fall as first victims of cuts in public expenditure, privatisations in the field of health, the right to medical and pharmaceutical care - how much more the law on prevention programmes and information.
B5-0792/2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Confederal group of the European United left/Nordic Green Left, on the crisis situation in Peru.
Mr President, I hope that instead of having a debate on Latin America during a matter of urgency abordáramos this issue following a discussion well-considered in the committees.
We must ensure that Peru to reach the goal with candidates which are equal to the challenge and be able to respond to the demands of the Peruvian people a renewal policy and a substantial democracy.
The joint debate is closed.
However, we know that Afghanistan is not far off, that Afghanistan is the largest producer world opiáceos and therefore we know and we can imagine the role played by these mafias policies, which are not just policies, in the expansion of trade in drugs.
Calls on the Commission to adopt humanitarian aid programmes aimed at the Afghan people, so as not to forget nobody on the ground.
The suffering caused by this conflict is appalling.
For years, a budget line financed programmes clearance and prevention.
Paciotti, and I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what it is going to happen with the resources for mine-clearance.
B5-0794/2000 by Mr Medina Ortega, Linkohr and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the kidnapping in Colombia of a Spanish jesuita participant in negotiations with the guerillas;
Unfortunately, all we would not have to return to Colombia.
The Commission has already shown its willingness to coordinate measures that package. in the next few days intends to allocate substantial resources for this purpose.
Therefore, once again, apply double standards here, and I believe that we must deplore.
The attitude adopted by the Albanian opposition I find it incomprehensible, especially since it deliberately refusing to accept a solution essential intended to remedy an Albanian problem in Macedonia.
I think that is something extraordinary that the Macedonians within their country reach agreements with each other.
However, the government, which has shown an enormous value to find a solution to the problem University and many other issues, needs clear positive signs and strong support, otherwise, the consequences for peace in the area can be harmful.
The PHARE resources earmarked for the year 2000 within the framework of the national programme can also be used to help the university during the next academic year, that is to say during 2001-2002.
I would like to point out that already today all the Greek Members of the European Parliament have reacted to this situation.
As this concerns Greece, which has the greatest maritime sector throughout the European Union, basically concerns the security of the entire navigation in the whole of the Union.
In recent years, in our own waters, have been given many lives at sea, not only in large ferry accidents but also all too often, between our fishing community.
On the contrary, it exploits the innocent victims to promote broader objectives of shipowners.
We must bear in mind that we are dealing here with the credibility of the European Union.
In conclusion I would like to stress that the Commission is firmly convinced that the problem of the legal provisions European about the safety of passenger ships must be one of the main concerns of the European Union, and that it is a question of ensuring strict application and uniform them throughout the Community.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for my somewhat late arrival for reasons which you know well, to make a very brief statement on the two issues that are on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade, and in the ex-República of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
Commissioner Verheugen is going to speak, as did Mr Solana, on the two issues we are discussing this evening, namely the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
We must be prepared to meet this promise with regard respect the will of the people.
Madam President, Mr high Representative, Commissioner, I am participating in this debate with reservations, because I did not want that Parliament apareciese solely as a judge authorised to launch a anathema this or that, at a time when, following the hopes so strongly encouraged here a month ago, we are faced with the tragic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the Middle East.
Madam President, my speech today is not based on a number of analysis distance, but in my own experiences of last week, since by chance, I was in Jerusalem and in the Gaza Strip occurred when there these disturbances.
Although I am against any violence, cannot be treated with the same brush violence Israeli and Palestinian violence.
I would ask Parliament, at this critical moment, to issue a statement of support to the courageous today have stood up for freedom in the streets of Belgrade, echoing the support that we Europeans not so many years ago we give to those in other capital also fighting for their freedom.
Madam President, the Europeans would certainly very inspired if collected flight to the ball us that that same which the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
The position of Jerusalem is the complex issue in the negotiations.
For years has managed to mislead the people of your country with its propaganda machine and the brutal repression of the media and, unfortunately, has also managed to fob off many people of the Western world by creating a false picture of reality.
While the tragedy concludes, it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of the united Europe and free, supporting the masses around the Yugoslav parliament and help to Mr Kostuníca to achieve and play its mandate.
It is precisely its position so hard makes us fear the worst at the same time - and current events reinforce these phrases that were drafted a few hours ago.
I wonder whether the Commissioner is already looking at the steps required to make it clear that we regard Kostunica really as the legitimate elected representative of the Serbian people, and as the real partner with whom the European Union wants to speak from today.
The European Parliament wishes to express its full solidarity at this historic moment in which tyranny is faltering triumphs and democracy.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0237/2000) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council decision amending decision 2000/24/EC so as to extend the Community guarantee granted to the European Investment Bank loans for projects in Croatia (COM(2000) 289 - C5-0336/2000 - 2000/0122(CNS)).
I welcome the new political direction that began in that country, following the legislative and presidential elections.
Between the Union and Croatia in office, among others, a group of advisers whose mission is to offer Croatia their experience and technical assistance within the framework of negotiations for agreements normalisation of relations.
Let us not forget that until recently, Croatia was a textbook of a programme of privatisation completely failed, of which only benefited the few. this process should be supported in its entirety.
The sum of EUR 250 million in the form of a loan from the EIB for the period 2000-2007 which we are debating will not be a milestone, but will help and encouragement.
It is therefore not entirely right to speak on the report "democratisation" .
When Croatia and Slovakia managed for the first time a apparent independence, acted as servants of the Hitler regime.
We could also, of course, have considered the issue of the application and guarantee the Croatian issue in the same context of the debate yesterday evening and the situation in Belgrade.
When it appears that Milosevic has fled and the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies delay only a few days' time.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 6 October 2000.
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
My question is this: who is entitled to speak on behalf of the European Parliament on the Statute?
I would ask you, Madam President, that you will make every possible effort to speed up the procedure under way in the Committee on Petitions on a letter of protest who have submitted over thirty collective and social NGOs against this situation, which has been blatantly breached the Community rules on radiation protection.
The autopsia practised in Georgia has clearly shown that it was a murder with possible torture.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity for us to take a major step towards our dream - which, incidentally, I do not share.
This is the Basic Law and the basis for any other rules on modified plants by genetic technology.
Of course, is a blunder to another.
(The sitting was suspended at 17.40 p.m. and resumed at 17.50 p.m.)
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0291/2000) by Mrs Van Lancker, on behalf of the Committee on employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council (COM(2000) 379 - 0508/2000 - 2000/2219(COS), the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the regions on the agenda socio-política.
Thirdly, just one question: to stress the importance of this open method of coordination does not mean that this method will replace social legislation, because we have set of Europe' s social rights, we must have the courage to draw up minimum social standards and it is essential that there should be a social legislation for the internal European market.
Similarly, in our view we support the social dialogue and cooperation with civil society and especially with women' s associations of the countries which are preparing its annexation to the European family, since there too we must achieve a uniform development to continue the steps and the logic of the rest of Europe.
The spheres of activity listed in the Commission communication are the subject of an overall agreement.
I remember, at this stage of my speech, to be held in Biarritz a seminar European, which I will chair, on this subject on 4 and 5 December.
With regard to the fight against the exclusions, we have come a long way to define, on 17 October, in the Council on "employment and social policy" , objectives appropriate to combat poverty and social exclusion, which will form the basis of national action plans.
I have heard in some quarters that, having read the report, agree with the diagnosis, but not with the formula.
Technological development and new methods of organisation also speak in favour of a flexible cooperation where concentrate more on objectives and to achieve results and for less rigid regulations.
We need to find in that direction, in our opinion, the arcaísmo that they are accused those who expect a market without obstacles is the best of all possible worlds.
Certainly, this has contributed to reducing the discontent among workers in our country and increasing investments in the country from outside.
On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
If we are talking about a Charter of fundamental rights and looking for a European constitution cannot be estrábicos, but we must say that we have to give all the necessary steps, although this legislation requires more attentive and I do not think that Mrs
I would like to point out critically the lack of initiatives on new challenges in the workplace protection, the involvement of employees and in labour relations.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner and the Minister, Mrs Péry, for this presentation of the social policy agenda.
As we know, Conservatives are opposed to these points. our group them attaches particular importance.
The third issue is enlargement.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 noon.
The Commission measures must be complemented by studies on the individual access to health systems and social security systems and pension, about the shortcomings in the work organization and, perhaps, also on the general reduction in working hours.
In this way, women feel Europe closer, and Europe will gain with the interesting ideas and innovative to express itself through its relationship with this programme.
We expect an annual report from the President of the Commission within the framework of a debate to be held every year in the European Parliament.
I am pleased also that it is scheduled a better distribution of childcare, in order to facilitate the balance between work and family life.
My group will take this into account in the final vote.
(The President cut the speaker off)
I welcome the new approach of the Commission, and very well thought-out the proposal for a decision for the 2001-2005 programme.
I believe that the large number of amendments adopted shows the common feeling of the European Commission and the Committee on Women' s rights and equal opportunities.
On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests of companies that have felt a certain powerlessness following certain decisions on mergers, particularly relating to cases where they had need to appeal to the Commission' s decision before the Court of First Instance.
I should also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner Monti on when we can expect to be put in place a public register, effective and efficient state aid, and also on when will become a reality at length the promised table of results.
I would also like to say to Commissioner Monti that it is important that in the next report we find a paragraph rather more extensive dedicated to the financial services sector.
What I said applies not only to the field of energy policy, but also for all the other areas.
Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work that has been carried out on both reports which give a positive opinion on both your personal work and on the Directorate-General for Competition.
I stress this because the market cannot regulate everything and in this respect should not exist and cannot be unrestricted competition.
Mr President, today, and, of course, I do not intend to do, that public aid alter the conditions of competition and constitute a harmful element that encourages the inefficiency of companies.
To hear you deny the fact that public aid have fallen during the period 1994-1998, when the Commission itself acknowledges this reduction, has at least been rather odd.
And, of course, Mr President, although my opinion relates to XXIX Commission Report on Competition Policy, we cannot currently stop looking to the past, but nothing more than to learn for the future.
Mr President, during the time available to me, I would like to address three points: the modernisation of Community law on competition, the activities in 1999 in connection with the rules of competition and the issue of state aid.
The Commission has followed acting firm and especially against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
Mr Rapkay, so the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the search for its competition policy and I do not believe that that support will disappear.
This mechanism can be activated or at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which is still in force during the third phase of economic and monetary union for the countries which are now are the subject of an exception, namely Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
For the future, recourse to the capital market should remain the only option.
I therefore ask that the report in its present form will receive the conformity of the House and that this can also be used in the field of material propagation of the vine in the internal market.
Today, its review is necessary in view of developments in regulations phytosanitary and scientific progress and technical made, in particular as far as the increase in vitro refers
Furthermore, with this precautionary principle, I believe that refer to the possibility of genetic modifications means, for example, to reduce the intensive use of plant protection treatments; moreover, in the sense of precautionary the amendments by Mrs
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to observe the precautionary principle, both in letter and in spirit, if unfortunately articles and amendments just mentioned were not removed, we need to stick to the view Marianne Isler Béguin, and therefore of the Committee on the Environment, and vote in favour of its abolition.
Mr President, if I may: Commissioner, could you give us its opinion on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, public Health and consumer Policy? is Amendment No 1.
The only point on which we could discuss is whether I should have noted or not on the French Government I sent the resolution languor of Mr Le Pen' s mandate.
I would remind you that the vote will take place later, at 12.30 noon.
In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
The preparatory group will play its full role until 19 November, the date of the next meeting at ministerial level.
We needed climate that that this as has been said by Mr Moscovici and I too was, at the level of Heads of State or Government, a feeling very serious collective responsibility and of a historic moment in European integration.
Simply be, ladies and gentlemen, ensure that from now on, with regard to these matters of qualified majority voting, so that we do not find ourselves below the spirit or the climate of Biarritz.
Let the small countries are not on the orders of the larger countries of the European Union.
I would appreciate the President-in-Office to clarify this point.
On the one hand, the presence of President Kostunica was an historic event.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, there are profound disagreements on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council, as you have pointed out.
It seems to me that we are going in the opposite direction.
Those who are outside enhanced cooperation actually enjoy the same freedom that passengers seats back a car.
I am not here, nor the honourable Member for ingerirme in internal affairs Germans, but I believe that this position is deeply coherent and is, moreover, the direction that the Commission wanted, if I am not mistaken.
We have started to exchange views on this subject, it follows that all Member States wish to maintaining this ceiling after enlargement.
I believe that this is not the case.
The first is that we have sometimes had the impression that in Biarritz had an obsession with the debate between the Member States the small and the large.
From this point of view, I believe that it is not enough to say that we must safeguard the Community method.
Also, when the candidate countries accede, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
The wording of the text of Article 93 is all the more dramatic terms that, once achieved the first wave of enlargement, we will find it even more difficult to move towards qualified majority voting.
We must convince the citizens of these countries of the merits clear of any new European Treaty.
Imagine that fears fed for generations could yield without new upsets the appeasement definitive prelude to reconciliation, it would have been ignore the workings of this crisis.
I also intranquiliza no correspondence on the issue which calls for Parliament on democratisation.
Those guilty of this are rather those who advocate made major reforms before enlargement.
On the one hand, the decision by the head of the Israeli Government to freeze the peace negotiations by violence in the region and focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
We have learned with great satisfaction the victory of the Yugoslav people and the choice of Kostunica as chairman.
I advise Mr Barón Crespo to ask your colleagues Italian I explain why are in government in Italy with a party decidedly communist and why are preparing to take part in political elections with another party decidedly Communist Party to overhaul Communist.
On the contrary, in this area we need to make progress in the application of the codecision procedure.
The Commission, which has the possibility of adopting decisions by simple majority is in a situation that is more favourable to give this momentum in the future.
The Union does not need now visionaries who have the telescope because in the year 2030, but that needs leaders who are able to attract the problems that will bring the completion of enlargement in a period of 3 to 8 years, as well as for providing answers to them.
So this is an open work which has not fallen from above and has not been imposed.
The debate is closed.
Without this fundamental reference, at best we understand each other and, at worst, we slaughtered each other.
Democracy has improved in Europe, but, for its part, European democracy is sick.
Today, 24 October 2000 in Strasbourg, the European Parliament says something simple, and I say this as a very high: is the European Constitution? yes, you can achieve that, yes, we want.
In other words, the same expresses the idea that insularity in itself is a criterion enough.
I will go to the essential concentrándome in the salient points of the report by President Gil-Robles, of which I will simply say that I find excellent.
Firstly, the simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
According to the information - I am going to be technical, forgive me - which has been communicated to the Presidency, I believe that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version, only refers to the implementation of cohesion policy, to the least favoured islands, and not to islands in general.
Mr Duhamel, no doubt you will agree with me when I say that if there is no success in Nice, there will be no room, at least there will be no credibility, to reflect on the future of European integration, at least in the current framework.
This European Constitution must also establish a clear distribution of tasks between the Member States and the European Union and incorporate the dynamics of European integration in those areas, such as foreign and security policy, where there is a need for common action.
They could also be necessary to overcome blockages persistent.
Be clarify the distribution of competences and the principle of subsidiarity.
As you know, in the various Member States and between the various social forces there are many different opinions on this.
Unfortunately, the ultimate objective of a European constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
Indeed, in the home strengthened European peoples will be invited to the Bureau military monetary, possibly tax, and then the other peoples, which will be alongside.
It is clear that the second version is incorrect because, firstly, in one way or another Structural Funds cover regions economically disadvantaged and, secondly, because if this interpretation was the correct not, the adoption of the statement nº30.
Mr President, I shall concentrate my small sixty seconds in the report by Olivier Duhamel, which is a good report, because dares to say things clearly, and the other of our rapporteur has convinced us definitely this a short while ago.
In my opinion, the unity of Europe can only be policy.
We believe that the new Constitution should be about to enter into force for the next European elections.
Consequently, the epithet "least developed" applies both to the island regions and the rest of the regions and, according to the proposal by Mr Barnier, to be here is a change in the Italian version of the Treaty, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
The debate is closed.
As my colleague said that it was going to vote against this amendment lapses.
Mr President, what is being called for here is a formula for chaos.
I welcome the adoption by Parliament of the Trakatellis report, because it has to be set high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives.
If the European parliamentary immunity is autonomous, the French authorities should have required of waiving Mr Le Pen.
I am particularly disappointed by the vote of the European Parliament on the report on the proliferation of vineyards.
For some, alcohol is as tobacco and drugs, a product which damages public much to those who consume and the people around them; others, however, see it above all as a source of employment and something with which one can gain a lot of money.
The rapporteur welcomes generally welcome the proposals of the Commission' s White Paper on this subject, but it is worried about the possible consequences of the reform, mainly oriented towards decentralise the application of the competition rules.
- (FR) although, in the debate yesterday evening, I congratulated Jonathan Evans on his work, I first of all to express my deep disagreement with the approach excessively liberal, even ultraliberal, of his report.
The Agency for industrial development of Ireland has been reorganising its direction to achieve half of the new jobs as a result of projects in new areas in the Objective 1 region over the next three years.
The state intervention, funding and other financial incentives or tax sometimes come to something to balance this situation before the alarido which cause the consequences of this policy.
(The sitting was suspended at 14.06 p.m. and resumed at 15.00 p.m.)
The situation in October 2000, when the run-up to take a decision on the figures for the 2001 budget, is as follows.
However, the Council did not hesitate to reduce agricultural expenditure by EUR 555 million in total.
Moreover, we also believe, of course, that should not be simply create 400 additional posts, in addition to the existing ones.
I can only recommend to the Council to follow our example.
The administration of this House therefore needs to be at the service of Members and not the other way round.
The Court of Auditors is the least concerns causes us at the moment.
Finally, we also have to examine the Ombudsman' s budget.
On the contrary, we believe that we should strengthen research, particularly with a view to the accession of the candidate countries.
We also propose that we continue to report regularly to Parliament.
And when we have a conciliation legislation on social affairs, culture or the environment - the Commissioner will admit that I am right - we met the budget Commissioner, the Finance Ministers and the members of the Committee on Budgets to read together, so that we do not commit a nonsense financial.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support.
Moreover, in giving room for manoeuvre, particularly as regards the limits of category 3 and category 4, the Council wants to give Parliament, ultimately responsible in relation to these non-compulsory expenditure, the opportunity to express its priorities without again cast doubt upon the Council and therefore simply, the salient points of the draft budget of the Council.
These two issues are often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.
The situation is similar when it comes to the structural policy.
The outcome of the conciliation this summer was also satisfactory, as has already been pointed out by Mr Colom i Naval, specifically in the sense that in the future will enlarge also informing Parliament in relation to the legal bases with repercussions on expenditure.
Let me remind you that in the Financial Perspective which was adopted last year only be predicted 1,850 million for the Balkans for the entire period until 2006.
I would ask you once again to examine this proposal - the Commission left on the table - judgments without without without the envisages also as a possibility.
This material was obviously useful for the preparation of the budget for 2001 and for granting the discharge for the 1999 financial year.
Despite the fact that, as a member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this committee and despite the great respect I have for the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I must insist on two amendments that our committee is once again proposing now before the House and which remain important but have been reduced the figures.
With these measures we propose to ensure that judicial control will function fully restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and consolidate its nature of Community of law.
The removal of this initiative on the part of the Commission, without replacing it with any other, was clearly contrary to the political will of the Lisbon Summit and the priorities of this House.
This was a decision staggering and many of us had the feeling that this very important programme had become just a football in a match between the Committee on Budgets and the Commission.
The third issue is the European agricultural policy as now appears in the draft budget.
If employment is the political priority of the Union, fisheries, as an economic sector more, cannot stay aloof.
I am particularly pleased that he has been able to guarantee the financing of programmes Socrates, the the Culture 2000, which finalizaban at the end of last year.
For example, our aid to the Mediterranean countries has a delay affecting the budgets for many years.
Mr President, in the debates in previous years I spoke on behalf of the Committee on culture, youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which has been Mrs Iivari this afternoon.
But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we must not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends only 1% of GDP and the administration of a large part is led by the Member States.
Let me turn to the global strategy.
This brings me to the strategy of our group, because the essence of our concept is the wish of funds having an adequate return for European citizens.
On the contrary, we must work for a Parliament which campaigning in favour of transparency, efficiency and democratic control effective European institutions.
When that happens we must consider how we can resolve this problem.
We want to promote democratisation processes and we want to maintain a balanced relationship between the traditional areas of foreign policy now that that that.
The biggest problems in the preliminary draft budgets relate to external actions.
Of course, we need a rigorous management; we support it and we should not try to discharged.
An initiative is extremely exceptional, especially at first reading, and it is a thankless initiative, because it cannot, in the current context, obtain a majority of votes.
Having said that, the importance of funding for Kosovo still raises some problems.
Budgetary policy must ensure that the citizens have confidence in European politics.
All the measures designed to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises also therefore deserve our support.
The level of budgetary implementation;
Preserving this strategic line in the approach to the budget this year and next, the European Parliament has its full space in the budgetary process.
With the transfer of EUR 175 million, we have calculated approximately EUR 25 million more than we expected.
With regard to MEDA, the Council said that the commitments were not a problem, in view of the eight years of delays in payments.
I think that Mr Duff was present this morning when we mention the European Council in Biarritz.
My reply will be very simple.
Ramiro Zapata was the last of the 25 human rights activists murdered, and recently the Colombian press has denounced the plan "100" of the paramilitary groups to kill human rights activists.
Today I am a little more satisfied that in July with the attitude of the Council, because, as many times in crisis situations, the European Union always seems the final authority to reach the international stage and make its voice heard.
The question, Mr President, and I will end here, is whether there is a formula pressure of the proposal by the President in his information and if the aid that we are going to give will be completely different to that of the United States, that is not addressed to the fumigation of crops, but the replacement of crops and also to the social aspects and not to the military.
The questions that other Members and I have raised relate specifically to the situation in Colombia.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
Subject: tax on financial transactions the demand for a taxation of speculative capital has been gaining ground in recent months, with the proliferation of committees (ATTAC association pour taxation unites them South Transactions financières et pour l l'aide aux citoyens) in France and in Europe, and the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and in the Senate from the same country.
Furthermore, I would like to answer the question of its influence on the volatility of the currency markets and, especially, of the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand on speculators who expect devaluations in the order of 20 to 50%.
On the other hand, requested in paragraph 6 the establishment of an international organisation arbitration for cancelling the debt of the countries of the South.
It is, moreover, what happened in the case of the euro in the level of one year, either for regret or unwanted pregnancies.
I would add, to what he said Danielle Auroi earlier in relation to the countries of the South, which some estimates made by specialists, give interesting figures: for example, a range which runs from 50,000 to 250,000 billion dollars, which could recover from a Tobin-type tax. the UNDP, for its part, estimated at EUR 40,000 billion dollars a year, an amount which could be enough to give living conditions minimum hundreds of millions of people who are all in third world countries.
The disease was detected in recent months, for example, in different parts of France.
Taking advantage here a representative of the French Presidency, wonder: will pay these massacres of beef from the funds from the EU budget or you will pay in national budgets, and considers you indicated that it would be paid from the EU budget?
I ask you indulgence so that she can hear the answer, please.
Therefore, the action of the two governments concerned is limited by this international law.
I think it is a mystery that the Commission already can say in February and the Council in July how much is needed.
By acting in this way in the name of subsidiarity, in reality, the Union abdica of one of its tasks as has happened in recent weeks both in Northern Italy as in Spain.
As an MEP interested in this majority, how can I approve the expenditure of 11,500 million UK taxpayers - that is, our current annual contribution - when does not have a broad public approval?
With a flexible position by the Council, an agreement can be reached at second reading to close the budget.
If someone is not yet convinced that, just look at the evidence.
Joan Colom i Naval, Vice-President responsible for buildings, has already introduced such a strategy.
Political messages in this year' s budget are, as stated by Commissioner Schreyer - many. the restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, ensure better implementation of structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
NATO' s war has done too many havoc and has caused much misery.
Despite what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints without undermining the agricultural budget necessary for a sector sustainable rural in the current Member States.
And I say so clear and unequivocal: you Kostunica must be given a chance and I hope that in the coming weeks and months put in place an amnesty, but in the meantime I would like that at political level and budgetary put political conditions to the implementation of these two new budget lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
The Yugoslav elections have demonstrated two things: finally people has been hastiado of the dictator Milosevic and at the same time trusts Professor Kostunica.
Furthermore, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners will soon be in freedom.
Not to do so, caímos inevitably in the "financial engineering" , in redistribution and cuts either in general expenses either in social expenditure and environmental either in cooperation, but the fact is that, despite this, the allocations for the Balkans will remain inadequate.
In this context, efforts are required to resolve the major social problems such as unemployment.
There is an issue that is of course very important: we have begun focussing category four, but has not yet been entirely clear whether we have been able to give you a solution, not least because the Council refuses in resounding to contribute ideas.
In any budgetary work are important priorities.
This is not very serious on the horizon next to the expiry of the Treaty, but it would be worrying if framework The the maintained the possibility of extending practices of this kind.
And that brings me to my third point, the challenge ahead of us.
The new financial agreement does not say anything about it. I could see that European citizens distrust increasingly politicians.
I pay tribute to them for that.
The availability to dialogue between all the institutions involved has given rise to an exemplary collaboration which will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
Those who represent European values in a country sceptical of the EU are now a new argument in favour of the Union, that is, better protection of personal integrity, something that is important for the people in modern society.
In my own country you reform the law of personal data, depriving the parliamentary power on the decisions of the Commission.
Many other points also pose problems and deserve the trial of practice to be insured.
The Commission would firstly point out the compromise that we have all taken with the citizens to ensure the protection of personal data processed by the institutions.
With this statement, the Commission accepts that the scope of the regulation will be limited to the activities of the first pillar.
With a view to honour the political agreement concluded with the Council and the rapporteur to allow the adoption at first reading, the Commission rejects any other amendment which does not belong to the Paciotti report adopted by the parliamentary Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, with the exception of Amendment No 69 which corrects Amendment No 41.
It is therefore urgent that the staff of the interservice group being strengthened quickly at the heart of the Secretary-General of the Commission, so that all acts of proposed general scope could be accompanied, during its examination by the College, in accordance with Article 299, paragraph for a detailed impact statement.
From the point of view of the Committee on legal Affairs and the Internal market, what I want to stress is that, indeed, can only be dealt with like what remains the same.
Given the importance of fisheries for the outermost regions, I must feel sorrow about this.
Until now, since under the chairmanship of Delors the setting-up of an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long and fruitful path and who has chaired the Group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans outermost.
Indeed, although even before the Treaty of Rome referred to the French overseas departments, it was not until 1989 and programmes specific actions linked to remoteness and insularity, the famous POSEI, so that the European Union finally admit that the permanence and combination of structural problems of the outermost regions justified specific treatment with regard to the other regions of the Community.
I have no doubt that the proposals which the Commission presents to the Council will bear the stamp of these qualities.
This issue is becoming increasingly important as we move towards the eastward enlargement of the EU.
And it should be noted that this right to difference is no more than a product of the principle of equality, which also requires treated differently what is different.
It is a document that my staff and I believe rich in ideas and which does not shirk any of the issues of concern to the outermost regions of the Community.
Your report, Mrs Sudre, quite rightly emphasises the need to act in time. earlier.
With regard to the relaunch of the diversification of the economy, we have made progress in several key areas.
It is now important that are present in the framework of the DOCUPS a large number of projects, but, in parallel with this action on the ground, we have to consider thoroughly the specific needs, access, each of these outermost regions to this information society.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Of course I shall inform the President of your speech.
I am concerned about the possibility that there will be a general failure of numerous devices vote, which would threaten the decisions adopted by the House.
Both the Food Authority as legislative proposals that we propose, seeking to guarantee food safety, will have the support of this Parliament, Commissioner.
Its main task is to provide scientific advice, since the debate on food safety must also be credible.
Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive contribution and their willingness to take into account the opinion of the other committees.
When we are faced with a possible risk is important to apply the precautionary principle.
On the issue still controversial how far we should go in regard to allow it to examine nutrition, and even to submit recommendations and be consulted by those whose main task is to risk management, we have also said that in the field of security, the issues should at least be subject to public opinion and the advice of the food authority.
A central idea is to ensure the survival of the rich heritage traditions.
It is not the laws or regulations which form the basis for this respectability, but the integrity, high quality academic, independence, the sense of responsibility, transparency and comprehensibility.
Certainly, it is essential to proceed on the basis of sound scientific knowledge, to assess the risks associated with the food chain, from farm to table.
Mr President, it is clear that there is a considerable enthusiasm for the creation of a European food safety agency, as our rapporteur prefers calling it a.
Given that the programme of the WHO continues with the money and the support necessary, it seems that there is absolutely no need for another agency, especially one with such limited scope such as the 15 Member States of the European Union.
Food safety is the basic precondition for the consumer because consumers want to eat healthily and that we need to address us.
If we do not get a new framework directive many aspects relating to food safety will only be a dead letter.
Consequently, we need to change the EU Treaty in such a way that it gives the Commission power to impose sanctions in the food field, in the same way as currently being done in the field of competition.
Support for all those who support the strategy "food for All" and working in the political field, administrative or any other.
I do not share these words, because we know that man is not only body.
This should represent the real heart of coordination of the network of the national agencies which, in turn, must set in motion and coordinate a network of centres of excellence food safety at regional level.
I therefore believe that his Amendment No 11 and my Amendment No 17 are perfectly compatible.
The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
Her report contains no many amendments, but only to emphasise certain issues.
It says very clearly in the report and I welcome that.
However, the creation of a European authority food safety is very positive.
It is to be hoped that fulfil all these criteria for the good of the citizens of the Union as a whole.
I think that it is essential to establish temporary margins in certain those who will be informed the European Commission in cases of justified concern.
The EU must have the highest standards possible food safety for its citizens.
The Commission is now proposing the creation of a European Food Authority.
I fear that Europe once again run the risk of afford a inflated apparatus officials who is unable to act.
As we create new levels of bureaucracy and spend more money, is increasingly less what we get in return.
To prevent similar work or parallel in several institutions.
However, we must avoid under the debate on the White Paper, increases in public opinion the fear of a bureaucratic Europe which has a bearing on the quality of products, without penalizing effectively fraud that threaten the health of consumers.
As you know, the Commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety.
The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation to establish the principles and objectives global food legislation, which will provide the framework for the future measures of health protection in food.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Turning now to our report, I support the Commission' s proposal and I have to say that the Parliamentary committees foreign and development have worked hard to improve it further, especially on some points.
As he said very explicit and clear Mrs Bonino, with the Commission' s proposal for a regulation has been given a new step forward.
The Commission' s proposal for a regulation is far too vague.
It is necessary for the appropriation for de-mining is organised in a reasonable way and that fund research work for work detection and disposal, so that instruments can be used in a simple way on the ground to provide aid precisely in developing countries.
Over the last eight years, we have contributed more than EUR 200 million from the Community budget, the fight against landmines.
But we cannot penalise those who have a bad governance.
Firstly, as I have already mentioned, I think it would be a mistake, well-intentioned, but counterproductive, impose accession to the Ottawa Convention as a prerequisite for Community assistance to mine action.
I cannot accept amendment No 19.
Secondly, the international community must improve coordination of their efforts at global level and, in particular, in the countries concerned.
Mr President, the Socialist group shares the pride that has just expressed Mr Van Orden with regard to the role played by the European Union.
Just think of bombs toy Soviet in Afghanistan.
Thank you for a good report.
Mr President, the Cambodians knocking at mines centinelas eternal.
With regard to the uniformed people have a justified mistrust which is built up over many years of war.
Mr President, I am delighted that has finally European legislation, in the form of a regulation, on anti-personnel mines and today we have a good report by Mrs Bonino on it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing something very sad.
It is no coincidence that mines are mainly in crisis areas, that is to say, in areas in which could have been taken another type of initiatives in order to overcome this crisis.
Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a signal warns the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child.
It is tragic that it is the civilian population who suffer as a result of the ineptitude of their leaders.
Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, welcome them on behalf of our institution, with which their country maintains special relationships within the framework of our common project of building an area of prosperity, security and peace around the Mediterranean basin.
All mines are stored.
Mr President, as I agree with almost everything that was said earlier by my colleagues, I will not repeat. I waive my speaking time.
The idea that you have of open cooperation is falling into the institutional framework dominated by Commission officials.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to the people who will be affected.
But as essential amendments from the EPP Group have just gain a substantial majority, I voted in favour of the report.
Mr President, I abstained in the vote on the resolution on the results of the informal European Council in Biarritz for two types of reasons: firstly, because I have had the opportunity to vote, recorded, separately, paragraphs 2 and 5, which has enabled me to express my opposition to both head-on.
In other words, around the table of the House common European, some comerían to the letter and the other menu minimum.
And democratic control must not miss, but we are not antojaba that the list of these rights and its inclusion in the Treaties, it was the European Union' s number one problem.
There has been talk of referendums and the amendments tabled to this report relating to these referendums.
In European Parliament elections in 1999 participated only 40 per cent of the electorate, without regard to the countries in which there is a vote obligatory and those in which were made simultaneously national elections.
To achieve the desirable objective of a European Constitution, it is unwise to impose models and methodologies rigid, that impede fatally achieving the desired objective.
A genuine Constitution social should levelling upwards the best gains for the world of work, of women, immigrants and the citizens.
Even without denying a laudable intention of strengthening clarification, and deepening of the European Union, as well as a simplification of the texts necessary for the proximity of their operation in relation to the citizens, I did not vote in favour.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities
I think it is essential that the Charter of Fundamental rights of the EU involves the signing of the Convention on Human Rights of the European Council.
I Gil-Robles aid, because it proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas some Member States of the European Union agree on a joint action.
Allow decisions on increasing number of important issues are taken by qualified majority clashes with democratic standards fundamental.
Today is to avoid making strengthened cooperation more flexible, and it is bound to lose its departure, in this case too.
This report aims to specify the position in this respect Parliament (Resolution of 13 April 2000).
- (SV) in general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is favourable.
The British labour Members of the PSE Group we welcome the adoption of its contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on enhanced cooperation, although not supports all the details.
These islands must feel active part of the European Union that I hope that the become a paradise for tourists and in a paradise for its inhabitants.
In the Middle Ages these regions and their inhabitants do not belong to Europe. even now are regarded as genuinely European.
In fact, the peculiarities of these regions in general, due to the insularity and the remoteness from the continent of Europe, but also to the chronic dependence on a single production or a few, require specific measures appropriate to overcome those limitations.
Mr President, I apologise for delude the Presidency and the interpreters listening to my last explanation of vote and, in particular, I should like to express my solidarity with the translators our explanations of vote, as far as I am concerned Mrs
We can make it clear that the aim of the agency is to channel the powers of national defence, or paralizarlos, to put at the service of the Commission' s objectives.
Nevertheless, the Commission and Parliament denominen this agency "European authority" designation, totally contrary to the spirit in which it is based.
This is not what we proposed the Bowis report, which gives the impression that food safety is considered primarily as an excuse to feed the well-known process of strengthening the powers of the Commission, to the detriment of national bodies and bodies that protect the safety of the citizens.
For this reason, I believe that this declaration will I condemn these acts unspeakable on behalf of our European Parliament has always called for respect for religious freedom and tolerance between all their communities.
Madam President, I understand the objections made by the rapporteur, but on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and rural development is not just vote on issues of money, but which will be voted on in a particular direction of the matter.
I should like to ask your support in order to make the necessary adjustments in line A-206 on the acquisition of property, depending on what amendments are adopted, in order not to traspasemos our own limit of 20% of all expenditure on administration.
Before the vote on the proposal for an amendment 929
Section VI - economic and Social Committee
Report (A5-0276/2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation sets out additional technical measures to rebuild stocks of cod in the Irish sea (ICES Division VIIa) (COM(2000)0190 - C5-0219/2000 - 2000/0071(CNS))
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The export subsidies make floods out the world market with the food surpluses of the Union, which entails serious disadvantages for the food industry in many developing countries.
In order to achieve resources that can provide aid to the Balkans, the Member States must make changes in the current budget.
However, Parliament has succeeded in introducing important priorities, such as greater concern for the fight against unemployment and poverty, many environmental issues and equal opportunities, etc. we voted against the right-wing attacks against the LIFE programme and the group pressure of.
- (SV) in relation to the reimbursement of expenses transfer of MEPs, we maintain our view that compensation should only cover the real costs incurred by journeys made during his term of office.
I am confident that - and I hope that the Commission will bring solutions in a constructive spirit - cubriremos the years 2002 to 2005 with a transitional provision.
- (DE) with the aim of, above all, to gag a proper to the national parliaments, the European Commission, in its regulatory fervour and liberalisation, has presented a proposal for a regulation directly applicable, rather than a directive, which has to suffer a painful íter procedural through Parliament and the Council of Ministers to enter already in force on 31 December 2000.
We support in this way the reform efforts of the Commission and we are opposed to continue to favour this sector.
This has made the depend very much on loans.
Nicholson report (A-0276/2000)
It is important to ensure that aid should not be used for military purposes.
Our view is always that the reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases must be achieved principally at a cost borne by the real pollutants (I.e. the major industries), to the detriment of their profits.
Moreira Da Silva Report (A5-0271/2000)
We should spend this money concordando and coordinating expenditure on research policy throughout the Member States of the European Union.
It is good that we can learn, for caution, the truth regarding these substances.
The voting period is over.
This will replace the national format which is now being used everywhere.
The loss of data for the statistics relating to the balance of payments is minimal.
As imaginarán, those most affected are small and medium-sized enterprises.
For years we have been demanding harmonisation efforts, because, after all, it is possible to establish a rapid system, safe and cheap.
In my opinion, this report is of the utmost importance to integrate effectively to our citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro zone and increase acceptance of economic and monetary union.
There must be no obstacles or major differences when there is a free movement of capital with a single currency.
However, the European Parliament and the Commission attach great importance.
I support the policy two-way with which the rapporteur wants to encourage banks lazy to act.
Radwan and Mrs Peijs on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, which requires measures to be adopted before the end of next year and, preferably, the establishment of these standards before they come into circulation notes and euro coins.
The proposal that we tabled Mrs Peijs and I moves in the direction that lay banks at a table not to make concessions, because we cannot increase more political pressure.
After all, if the system for the implementation of cross-border payments remains as expensive as it is today, the credibility of the new system of coins and notes will be called into question.
We believe that this form of compilation of statistical data on the system of payments within the Union is a relic of the past; that in an area integrated and single cease to be justified, and that constitute an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the market.
Listening to the speeches of some of my colleagues in the committees, some of which have been here longer than I had the impression that the exercise of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, to which this Parliament is being submitted for a fourth time, falls into this category.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you in advance the support that will bring to my report.
If we reject this political action at European level, must then be given more opportunities to the regions.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, in both quality and quantity. play an essential role in social cohesion and to town and country planning.
The attention it did the study of proposals and the concertation which has pursued with many interested parties have been a triumph for better define and optimise the establishment of this programme.
Thirdly, we must look for European added value.
It follows that small and medium-sized enterprises can only go well if the unemployment rate is reduced and public administrations at all levels are not debt and have adequate resources to send to the budgets of investment.
Businesses need clarity.
In particular, if an employer individually or a company with 250 employees has a project, cannot be the only way to receive funding the Constitution guarantees of 120%, but must also be possible to obtain funding for which has only a good idea.
The Member States, and even the regional authorities or local already behave like real financial bombs, which drenan taxpayers' money, i.e. sums are held to the majority of the population, including the most disadvantaged, and I bombean to big business and therefore towards their owners and shareholders.
The breeding ground for small and medium-sized enterprises includes thousands of fragile attempts that nourished by human potential and ideas for big business.
Of the measures we have proposed here, which I would most like to address the Commissioner is to facilitate and speed up access to aid and information for the people who addressed these companies can use them effectively.
All of them will be high on the multiannual programme.
Finally, I welcome the idea of an annual ritual endeavour to carry out an assessment of the implementation of the programme.
The recent incidents at the expense of the Greek minority in southern Himara made more urgent need to promote democratisation process, strengthening the institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
A considerable number of Albanians abandons its land by the uncertainty that prevails in your country, for the social difficulties, for their social structures and family premodernas.
We need preventive measures specially designed for Albania which contribute to the construction or reconstruction of the country in order to make possible a dignified life in the region.
That is how going from one jurisdiction to the other documents and the European Commission, for example, refuses to publish the report on, among other things, the customs Assistance Mission (CAM), drawn up by the Albanians.
We see the truth as it stands.
Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the point of view broad and extensive evidence that his report.
It is a matter of the utmost importance, created under the influence of factors historical, social, political and economic.
We will never know the real number of deaths.
Commercial activities the amendments to the people in a peaceful manner.
What, on the contrary, I find unacceptable in this report, and I say this quite frankly, it being confused the effect to the cause, that is to say, it being confused the procedure issue of visas and therefore the possibility to emigrate, with the result of illegal immigration.
The major institutional reforms arising from the Treaty of Amsterdam have influenced the management of the issues of asylum and immigration.
Thirdly and lastly, the action plan and its methods of implementation must be assessed by areas.
But, of course, this order we also requires us not go overboard in the volume of adoption of Community rules.
Precisely now must be emphasised the strength of Community action.
I am also that the changes to the proposals on codification of European legislation in force are carried out by including amendments in the directive or regulations in force.
Understood with property, the principle of subsidiarity points in two directions: decision-making at the lowest possible level, and the recognition that the lowest possible level can be, in fact, a very high level, when there is general goods at stake that will be lost unless that are protected in the same terms everywhere.
The report is a model of draft clear and concise and I hope that colleagues will take with the seriousness it deserves.
The report by the Committee on legal Affairs and the Internal market not had the enthusiasm of its members.
That is what I meant in the report on the draft slim, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina we just try reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
Therefore, I some aspects of the report I produce little enthusiasm, because I would have liked the report more "comunitarizante" with regard to the internal market and, above all, on this point, of course, are not the winds blowing in the report.
What is important for the EU institutions is that we have a strong commitment to raise the quality of legislation, particularly with regard to subsidiarity.
The debate is closed.
Maintaining this situation could have a negative effect on acceptance and in the opinion of citizens about the euro.
Mr President, in the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and home affairs prepare a thorough the Karamanou report.
However, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to take this oral question and this debate to express on both sides - which is directed both our motion for a resolution - and I do so with great composure, some considerations.
The peoples of the Union that we represent here so demand.
But, since much has been water under the bridge, the agreement has passed and has not been replaced.
I can understand the reasons for the Commissioner, but I cannot understand the Director-General.
We could say that, months after the mooring, we are still paying the previous agreement and the previous the previous.
Mr President, a year ago we had a similar debate and the fact that he had to spend a year to see the opening of negotiations highlights the difficulty of finding grounds for the enormous EU fleets.
In the second agreement, things were very clear.
But we must also understand that nothing is eternal, it even fishery resources.
That is why I am particularly keen to make it clear that if something has been highlighted the PPE-DE Group is not only in support, defend and promote the fisheries agreements, but rather to promote firmly to its size.
Thirdly, since it was interrupted the fisheries agreement, has continued the exploitation of waters of Western Sahara by Community fleets and non-Community which are not subject to control and the Commission or the Member States: we talk above all an important fleet in the Netherlands.
I understand that, since these fisheries represented a source of income and work for a poor region in relation to the rest of Europe.
Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that at the end of the month concludes the temporary aid paid to fishermen and shipowners to compensate for this year staging: it is an untenable situation, given that all prefer to work for aid.
This parliamentary andalucista brings a year negotiating and proposing initiatives by the corridors, by the offices, in the Committee on Fisheries and in the hearings with the Commissioner to take account of the especialísima character of the fishing fleet Andalusia fishing in Morocco.
Spain has developed in a remarkable way the most difficult neighbourly relationship has to that in history between Europe and North Africa, between Spain and Morocco.
As a parliamentarian Spanish and Andalusian, I support the right of thousands families of Spanish to maintain and defend, and to defend also from this Parliament, their jobs, which are in danger for almost a year.
It will come now to the vote.
A history of almost twelve years full of consuelos since the cancillería, delaying tactics, hopes, need of, placebos for those affected, defence of old rights vis-à-vis the citizens who do not looking for something else that their rights.
As you know, the matter is very complex and affects some people working in over twenty-five Italian universities.
If we reform and change the legal system Italian, as has happened for staff University, we do not believe that the Commission can intervene as soon as all European citizens enjoy equal access to all professional categories.
The injustice lies in the fact that two people who do the same work, working hand in hand, I do, however, with different salaries and under different conditions.
Worst of all, in my view, is having to inform you that a favourable judgment may not constitute more than some reassuring words and will not be a real change in their lives.
I would remind the Commission that I hope to respond to what the Court' s ruling in Case the expressing the as follows: "by this dictates that is contrary to Article 48 (2) of the EC Treaty that the law of a Member State restricted in any case the duration of contracts work of the foreign language assistants to one year, with the possibility of renewal, if not in principle applies that limit other teachers" .
Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
We still have jobs, as today has been in this discussion, too many obstacles, too many obstacles to the internal market, and not just in this case.
The debate is closed.
(The President cut the speaker off)
And I propose a minute of respect.
Are there any comments?
I support the proposal put forward by Mr Ceyhun, and I would be very grateful if the Council could clarify if there is real intentions to present a new proposal on this matter.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that this important event which we do not think would receive suitable treatment in the form of a matter of urgency.
Galeote have just described. I have the impression that you adheres to these reasons, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understood him correctly.
Madam President, some time ago we discussed in this Parliament the issue of sanctions against Iraq.
It is a matter of urgency that we hold a debate before the introduction of the amendment proposed by the British authorities, and that the Commission will send a clear signal is what the rules must be observed in this respect.
(A5-0314/2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' freedoms and rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the field of the fight against organised crime, laundering of the proceeds of infringements and crime in financial matters C5-0394/2000.
The statements must be followed by practical measures taken to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime.
The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot remain in the hands of an agency specialised, subject only to the control of the national governments.
Furthermore, Article 8 of the draft convention just about essential interests the grounds for refusing assistance which could invoke the requested state.
I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Marinho for the work he has done and I would like to say that, indeed, attempts to combat organised crime must enjoy support and attention.
Traced, pursue, condemn the laundering of dirty money terrorists and arms brokers and drugs, it certainly yes!
Our task is to proceed to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of organized crime.
All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
In my opinion, the establishment of these initiatives is progressing in a way which can ignore the protection provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
However, in reality, this is not so easy.
Finally, Mr President, the PPE Group supports the compromise amendment that we have reached with Mrs Roure on the activities of lawyers.
The second measure, the second instrument, is harmonisation.
It is a Portuguese initiative as that which several previous speakers.
And that was the subject of the joint meeting of the justice and Home Affairs Council and the ECOFIN Council on 17 October.
The best way to strengthen parliamentary control and judicial control of Europol is the full integration of the Europol Convention within the legal framework of the European Union.
A step in the right direction that the European Parliament tries to provide for a long time is the creation of a provisional Judicial Cooperation Unit.
This is the sense of guarantees, namely to advance this aspect of freedoms.
The European Parliament is the body supranational Community able to establish this relationship, and with this intervention I propose therefore to support this right to support our rapporteur
Only when the institutional model and rules that will govern the European area of justice are clarified, it will be possible for citizens and for Parliament to express an opinion on each of the measures proposed by the Council.
For this reason, Europol is a logical step in the process to give the citizens a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice, by strengthening the fight against organised crime.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt is to be congratulated on the excellent report he has presented, in line with the decisions taken at the Tampere Council.
But given that Eurojust, there is the coordination of the tax and national courts to combat all forms of serious crime - and here I agree with the rapporteur' s approach - the broad concept: we no longer talk only of cooperation for crimes purely transnational also refers to cooperation in the fight against criminal activities.
We will have the opportunity, as from 1 January 2001, go in the provisional unit, but the Commission wants to hold a debate on what should be the final unity of Eurojust.
Each side sincerely held its position, so I believe, without lapsing into rigid confrontations.
The problems encountered in expenditure not excessively care to the Committee on Fisheries, although provided more attention to other matters.
It is totally unacceptable that we have clear objectives or we can measure the results, something that does not happen in any other institution.
Second point: in the area of the hierarchy in the power of town of payments came here to intersections unacceptable, Commissioner.
With that I would like to stress that played a positive role in a number of problems.
It is obvious that this work in consortium does not create any duality in financial responsibility together.
We therefore really acted to recover EUR 3.4 million, and we can say that we have achieved in more than 90%.
Are there any comments?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after nine months of work and long wrangling in the search for a consensus, we now have on the table a draft Charter of fundamental rights.
I hope that, even if today is limited to regard the adoption of this Charter, this House will make it clear indubitablemente in the coming weeks calling on the Council to the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
This position is compounded, as you know, adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Biarritz in which they themselves adopted unanimously and without reservations, the Charter, and so I can only invite you, on behalf of the Council, to follow this position, but making them some arguments.
But above all it is because of the strength of its content which is why the Charter, I am sure, will era.
For its part, the European Trade Union Confederation has been able to condemn what she considers gaps, such as the lack of any reference to the right to a minimum wage, for example.
However, various personalities, and especially the members of the European Parliament, have proposed to include an explicit reference to the Charter of fundamental rights in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, which already refers to the Convention on Human Rights.
Our Group unanimously supports the Charter with the exception of the British delegation.
The European people' s Party calls in its entirety and unanimously that the Charter of Fundamental rights to be incorporated as soon as possible to the Treaties, so that has the force of law directly to the people of the European Union.
They have shown that it is possible to deal with the European affairs in a different way and exemplary, much better than the Intergovernmental Conference, given its work democratic and open, with the greatest transparency and which enables the participation of the citizens.
The right to health, social security, housing, the minimum wage are non-existent or only the order of solidarity.
Fourthly, the Charter - and this seems to me particularly important - starts from the principle of the indivisibility of human rights of citizenship and political character and the fundamental rights of social order.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Charter is simply the umpteenth demonstration of the capacity of the Union and our Member States to increase the vacuos texts, declarations of intent.
The Commission' s representative in the Convention in Turin attaches importance to the legal document.
Since the time of the market, when the Europe of rights perhaps has come finally. the concept of citizenship in the European Union is a relatively new concept.
The Charter is drafted, in fact, as a text that can have a binding.
I can also see with great pride that a representative of my group in my country, Jansson Gunnar, played a central role in the formulation of this Charter.
As I said last night - and I will say today - throughout the Union there are many shortcomings in this respect and sometimes, with our impatience to develop judicial and police cooperation, overlook the importance of ensuring that the innocent are not passive victims, collateral damage of a war against crime.
Madam President, the European Parliament' s draft resolution on the Charter of fundamental rights is based on the same ambiguity that the work of the House.
The Italian Constitution provides, for example, the limit of good conduct; the Convention provides for the limit of the rights of others, of public order.
Mr President, today in the vote on the 12 we will conclude a process that began in 1984 when this Parliament approved the draft Treaty of the European Union, where already featured the demand for a bill of rights, a process that we continue in 1989 with the resolution De Gucht.
The Charter will have effects. the will be whether or not in the Treaty.
We must welcome and not with fear, as think the seems seems to think.
It seems that the century which ends with all their struggles for the emancipation of social classes disadvantaged, past has has has not taught us anything.
The Charter fills a gap in Community law and strengthens the protection of individuals with regard to the atrocities of the European police force, the authorities combating fraud and the authorities that are responsible for competition.
I do not understand the dissent of the person motivates because the Charter does not cover everything which I would like to see included.
Mr President, I will continue where it was Mr Gahrton.
The third point I should like to make relates to the rights of citizens of third countries.
The Council of Europe has, along with the Court of Human Rights, with a great deal of experience in such forms of control, which we can use.
In view of the text of the Charter that we will be approving today - I hope by a large majority - it is clear that in our Charter we will achieve greater protection and also more up-to-date fundamental rights which have been accession to the European Convention for the protection of human rights.
That is why we need to make further progress.
I think it is important to bear this in mind if we are to achieve the necessary support of the citizens of Europe to the Charter.
After its adoption by this Parliament, the Charter of Fundamental rights will be guided my analysis for this report and as far as my personal means and intellectuals and the means with regard to colleagues that I facilitate permit me, I should like to make an analysis right by law, country by country of respect for the Charter in the fifteen countries of the Union.
- (FR) Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission I would like to begin by joining the purposes of President Moscovici, highlight the essential contribution that the Members of the European Parliament have contributed to the debate, to the Convention, in particular the role that Mr Méndez de Vigo has played in the Praesidium of the Convention to the drafting of the Charter of fundamental rights.
I refer not only to some of the most salient points of this debate: firstly, Mr.
The Convention has chosen to include fundamental rights inspired by the various instruments of the Council of Europe, in the treaties, in the constitutions of the Member States.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
In the current state of affairs, also corresponds to our Parliament to tell the Turkish people that there are currently three conditions for membership.
As a result, the European Investment Bank is one of the last ports of refuge activities bank in the world. there not tarnish the waves of social debate.
That is why I have taken good note of the suggestions made by Mr Morillon on the preconditions to Turkey' s accession and deserve the greatest interest.
I am pleased to announce that the Turkish Government has accepted both between this partnership as a basis for our future cooperation, so that we can good cause to hope that we will achieve precisely the intended aim, which is supported by our political forces reformadoras in Turkey, give new impetus to the process of reform and move with a view to the desired accession to the European Union.
What is most important to me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey' s accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to force the amendments the country and promote their development.
This text is awaiting its opinion.
What is now intention is to a necessary boost in the scene of a future accession.
However, I would urge Turkey - I do not know what the result of the vote - also to take this issue seriously.
The European Parliament will play its role in the promotion of relations with political parties, NGOs and the press, in addition to develop their sensitive and sometimes tirante relationship with the grand National Assembly.
Mr Morillon, your report is, in my view, absolutely realistic and responsible.
During his visit to Turkey in March at least mentioned by name the problem of the Kurdish population, as he has done today.
Considering that Europeans will lead to the Turks, and I quote, "a radical change in their habits and mentality" at the same time it reveals a great naivety and a great sufficiency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today fills me with concern.
Recommendation (A5-0325/2000) by Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Committee on constitutional Affairs, on the adoption of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (4487/1/00 - C5-0570/2000 - 2000/2233 (AVC))
However, in the coming times in which we are going to discuss the computer power, we have to realise that we must control broader and therefore more garantizador of the individual.
Recommendation Duff/Voggenhuber (A5-0325/2000)
We note I:
The rights laid down in the Charter are already part of national constitutions and are defended by the national parliaments, close to the people and their cultures.
For example, Article 19-1, which states that: "prohibit collective expulsions" , not specifies that this ban can be suspended in the event of war or serious disruption of public order.
We are going to give a brief explanation of these three objections in order.
The right of a government to leave aside arbitrarily its constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny.
But, I repeat today, we have every reason to be proud of the conditions under which we have completed this important stage for Europe.
A society that only aware of rights and duties, not becomes a selfish society.
It is our priority fight for the affirmation of fundamental rights is incorporated in political elections.
In spite of the fact that the Convention method is interesting and fruitful to establish a base text, seeking a broad compromise, nothing justifies that will deprive parliament, which embodies the representation of the people of Europe, the possibility of amending, enrich the text.
This Charter must be improved, and our Parliament must propose a strategy to enable its updating and enhancement.
Therefore, the Charter should not be to decide and proclaimed at the Nice Council, but at that summit should be encouraged a European debate on it.
Fortunately, the prevailing tendency of national governments seems to indicate the path of common sense, namely the acceptance of the Charter with a range purely political and non-binding.
Created as "Assembly" by the Cologne Summit, autoproclamó "Convention" , a name that unfortunately recalls to 1793 and the terrorist implications of the French Revolution fulfilled by another convention.
In exchange, the method used, the exclusions proclaimed and the ambiguity surrounding the very nature of this text cast a light rather harsh on the new efervescencias totalitarian operating in the very heart of the process of European integration.
Fortunately, the European Parliament is still in this field more than an advisory role, pending a full application of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but is the way to do so in the wrong direction, slowing down the right decisions.
On the other hand, there are discrepancies in terms of procedure.
A century ago was as well and, after making turn back, something is now in force.
The last thing we want is for the single market will enable criminals enter into the single market by the back door and without being seen.
And we also support the future creation of a Convention which facilitates the fight against organised crime and money laundering, as well as the various measures proposed in order to achieve these ends.
Indeed, it creates a provisional unit, made up of a representative of judges and police officers engaged in an activity judge in our fifteen Member States.
Mr President, as a member of the EU-Turkey joint Parliamentary Committee, have been intense attention to the draft accession of Turkey.
Nor is it acceptable Turkey' s role in Cyprus.
However, we support the rapporteur' s criticism that there is a need for an assessment on the granting of loans from the EIB and that there are shortcomings in matters of transparency and democratic control in the Bank' s activities.
Turkey, with all its differentiation, always has been and continues to be an integral part of the European reality.
Turkey' s accession to the European Union is now more than ever on an issue on the agenda.
Mr Morillon says that Turkey must take care not to see the European Union as a Christian club ' which wants to exclude them.
Turkey is a country fully democratic when learn to live with its past, like Germany democratic learned to live with yours and we are also asking to it.
As regards the authorities in Ankara have understood that the status quo is unacceptable for Europe and the rest of the world, we can make significant progress: the island can be reunited and tomorrow it will be an overall regulation fair, lasting and comply with international law.
Really, why not includes all this in the report of the European Commission?
This is the balanced framework in which we must resolutely continue with our action to promote the rapprochement between the Union and Turkey.
If we address the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU - and please listen carefully to what I say: if we address the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU - the draft which we are debating today will not start; it is as simple as that.
Moreover, it is also the reason for our insistence of carrying out an assessment of the first five years of implementation of the Barcelona process, so that in Marseilles, precisely, we will be able to establish the necessary guidelines.
However, we have managed to keep the dialogue, and sometimes on sensitive issues: stability, terrorism, migration, human rights, for example.
In addition, the Council has made an effort, especially since 1995, by providing the Mediterranean most important means, to the extent of the challenges of the partnership.
This is, in fact, a matter of extraordinary importance and I would like to say, as the central European.
Mr President, as you know, in English it says that when the star does not appear in a role is, as a representation of Hamlet without first enterrador.
We want to see a pooling of policies on issues relating to the single market and agree to introduce the cumulation of origin together with regional free-trade agreements so that all the partners relations remain free trade amongst themselves and adopt the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
We have learned with satisfaction that the Commission is prepared to give fresh impetus to the Barcelona process.
I have highlighted these aspects in them because we need to find the key to relaunch the process, and it is worth mentioning here the extension of the political agenda of Barcelona.
Therefore, it must be our priority the guarantee peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we must make every effort for the sake of this cooperation and ensure that commitments are implemented effectively, depending on the - let us say - selfish generosity of the European Union.
These are important issues and specific which I would like to raise, and I would like to thank Mr Brok which has authorised this debate just before the Presidency and the Commission to discuss these issues.
The world is moving towards a globalisation unstoppable and in this context it is necessary to be organised in large blocs to act as protagonists in the great jigsaw of global competition.
It is disappointing that the Mediterranean countries have requested just barely a quarter of the EUR 4,700 million allocated for the MEDA I programme, which expired in 1999.
For this positive is the proposal for a new impetus which the Commission has made, and we agree fully with the two priorities which marked Mr Patten in their speeches and reiterated here this evening.
It is a wake-up call for the European Union to play a more active role in the Mediterranean area that historically and culturally and enriqueció engrandeció our European continent.
However, much more serious when it in this Chamber calmly we exchange views sometimes divergent, are still killing more Palestinians.
Reconstruction aid
If, however, we do not in December the means to implement this regulation today, a debate, devoid of content.
It is complicated procedures, but must never want to turn a blind eye, and I hope that the Member States do not either, given the role played in this.
The media in that region have been responsible often tragedy which has lived and are necessary resources completely free and to act in accordance with the rules that exist in our democracies.
Also, I am lucky because I believe that Parliament has succeeded in achieving to return to a situation which originally was not as good as has maintained a continuous pressure.
I say again: it is absolutely essential to avoid unnecessary costs in meetings unnecessary.
However, we must not focus solely on Kosovo.
It is also unfortunate that a number of programmes are in the so-called reserve for action ", opførselsreserven" .
In Feira, recognised the quality of potential candidates for accession to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process.
I reiterate the main priorities allocated to the CARDS programme: the strengthening of institutions in the sense of democracy and the rule of law, economic development and reconstruction; regional cooperation.
The European Union was right to respond positively to the access of President Kostuniça to power.
On 6 November was carried out an initial examination.
What initiatives will adopt the Presidency of the Council, as requested by the European Parliament in its resolution of 16 March 2000, to play a more active role in order to ensure the application total and absolute of the UN peace plan?
How to achieve this new impetus without the resolution of this conflict? we know the close links between the European Union and Morocco, particularly between France and Morocco.
I can simply point out that France and Germany - here I am not speaking as President-in-Office of the Council - mentioned these matters in the course of a bilateral Summit in Vittel, last week, and it was decided to set up a working group in order to remedy the problem.
At the same time, the Union continues to provide material support to these two important countries, through the intermediary of its various programmes, especially TACIS.
The honourable Member' s question gives, then, to the Presidency the opportunity to dispel certain confusion.
I will add one further clarification: it is particularly in these two texts, to strengthen the criminal framework for combating the organised networks of smugglers.
In the report that the Council of Ministers Turkish adopted on 21 September as reform programme, appear on the part of the legislative changes several projects: included on the civil code measures to strengthen the equality of men and women in areas The the fight the best against the violence family; better condemn these acts of violence by creating specialist judges in the field of family and, finally, to ban the possibility of a reduced penalties for crime of honour.
Therefore, the Presidency should not have to give an answer on this point.
Next week, there will be a meeting of the European Conference, my invitation, in France, namely with the candidate countries. I announced that will come Mrs
Do you think that the model that has been followed in the case of Austria, namely the adoption decisions of, could be used in the future as an instrument for decisions outside the European institutions and create a new institution or a new group, in order to be able to get round the unanimity rule in the Council?
Cem. the terms of this answer was communicated to all the Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici - which says that in order to make progress on the association of Turkey and the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the Cyprus issue?
We must bear in mind that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than just a fisheries agreement and that, as he knows, if we do not come to this agreement, bearing in mind what this means, this could conceal a deterioration in relations between the European Union and Morocco.
Therefore, I must express my scepticism about the outcome.
With regard to the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, it should be noted that this principle should allow the strengthening of cooperation between the Member States, but also the protection of the rights of individuals.
Supplementary questions have to be other Members.
Furthermore, the Commission, in the communication adopted on 4 October 2000 d on the oil supply of the European Union, states that wishes to table at the Gothenburg European Council, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources which should help to strengthen energy efficiency, especially in buildings and transport.
In this spirit, we, as a result of the vote on the resolution on the embargo, within the framework of the third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, on 9 November, call on the Cuban authorities to cooperate fully with the international bodies which defend human rights.
It is therefore NATO take the provisions it considers necessary so that they cannot happen again.
(The sitting was suspended at 18.55 p.m. and resumed at 21.00 p.m.)
When one offers money is indisputably the privilege to establish clearly the political objectives, and that is what has been done by the Commissioner.
This presence can give a prospect global policy that we continue.
If we look at the region as a region of virtual political powers cometeremos a mistake.
Parliament must be consulted and informed on a regular basis, and this is the second request formulated the rapporteurs and that we will have to support.
The Heads of Government have also confirmed the Union' s determination to support this process with technical and financial aid.
It was Parliament that supported the Commission' s proposal to create the European Agency for Reconstruction.
As the House knows, we do not believe necessary to make an explicit reference to this in the regulation. despite the eloquence of Mr.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 noon.
The leaders agreed a framework 2000 broadened and updated cooperation between Asia and Europe which is the work programme for the forthcoming decade.
In my opinion these issues remind us of the important role that Europe represents in Asia, not only in economic terms and trade, although it should be noted that one of the reasons for the recovery of Asia is that we have kept our word to maintain open our markets to exports from Asia over the past two years.
I believe that we have made an excellent political declaration, but still remain to be resolved some problems.
We know that the Commission takes very seriously ASEM and we fully support this institution as far as that is concerned.
There is a need to improve the existing mechanisms in the transposition of Community law, to increase legal certainty and overcome its current slow.
Why should promote the creation of new regional organisations, starting where there is already Community presence, as in the case of the Western Pacific and the South Pacific.
This will make a real contribution to that fisheries are sustainable.
I believe that the future of fishing in international waters depends on these organisations and all the efforts of the Commission, Commissioner, there are few. to defend the position of the United Nations, both in the 1982 Convention and in New York, to which reference has been made here, we must have a presence very active in these organisations for responsible fishing.
That is why I believe that the Commission has a very important role to encourage fishermen to be at the forefront, cooperate with it and propose a solution with which we are all agreed.
In addition, the Commission must take on all kinds of tasks in connection with the negotiations that have taken place in the context of regional fisheries organisations.
Mr President, I have the same problem that Nicholson, but in my case is even more serious.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions recommended by the Committee on Agriculture and rural development.
Sometimes we have come to ask ourselves to what extent the crisis itself cyclical market is not caused by the speculative action of these business structures, so that by ensuring that the control of the sector according to their interests.
The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot' s report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, although with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform our agricultural policy.
We intend to introduce an insurance scheme and it is clear that is based on social criteria, in my opinion, the rapporteur has done an excellent job which shows that the Administration is much stake when it pursues a purpose clearly defined, as is the case.
On the one hand, producers more important, or those who are integrated with companies producing not, this device, preferring to systems that are already: savings individual loans, compensation fund.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say in advance that in principle I welcome the Commission' s proposal to create a fund regulation, also in the context of the Austrian agriculture.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
I understand that you want a market organisation for holding intensive and the collapse of the agricultural policy when it is linked to the land, when we are talking about an extensive production.
There is already an organisation of markets and we should not make the mistake of calling into question the organisation of existing markets, since in general terms has the desired effect.
In the opinion of the Commission is fully justified that only require greater rigour farmers participating in the Fund regulation, since after all they receive a stable income in exchange, while those which do not belong do not receive any compensation.
(The sitting was closed at 23.10 p.m.)
The appeal from VAT accounted for 36% and traditional own resources amounted to 15% of the total.
Another element of the reform corresponds faithfully with one of the key priorities identified by the Court is the need to attach greater importance to the measurement of the results and the action within a framework of allocation of resources which is consistent with the priorities and the predetermined objectives that are clearly defined and can be measured.
This is good and I thank him sincerely, Mr Karlsson, like the members of the Court of Auditors and also their services, the support given to the reform of the Commission in its report.
In this context and given its proximity, I too would like to remind you that, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, we have proposed an amendment to the Treaty to allow for the creation of a European public prosecutor responsible for prosecuting fraud to the detriment of the Community' s financial interests. I sincerely hope that the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice is not limited to take note of the proposal or to scrap but it discussed seriously.
The reality, as the describes the annual report, it is rather disappointing.
The number of errors identified is too high in order to provide this guarantee.
The amount earmarked for activities planning fell well short by EUR 240 million.
Also the assumption that the Court of Auditors' report would be a little more user-friendly and it would some clear recommendations, for example, one or two clear recommendations for chapter.
In 1995, adopted a convention on the protection of the economic interests of the European Union.
The Commission and the Member States should look from this angle and use the results of the report as a tool to improve their performance in the management of the European Union' s finances.
I know that this report and the role which is about to embark Parliament in the context of the discharge will contribute to increasing vigilance with regard to Community expenditure.
And at this moment, Madam President, I would like to keep quiet and hope that someone from the Council come here.
The Court, as in other years, has not said exactly where there have been failures.
Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union and on the Court of Auditors' report makes it clear that there must be a hard work in the applicant countries.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently came to an agreement with the Court of Auditors for which we could receive information from the Court of Auditors in advance with absolutely nature confidential and also agreed that we would retain the effectively in silence.
I would also like to address the Council and ask why no progress is being made with regard to Article 24 of the Financial Regulation.
It may be that a bit of common sense of the European Union should contribute to the resolution of the problem and to put George Bush at the place of history that deserves - just the dustbin!
We must not look for scapegoats, nor in our institutions and in our Member States.
Firstly, with regard to the procedure presentation of the annual report to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary control, I am pleased to hear the words reassuring honourable Members to the effect that the situation this year is more satisfactory than in previous years.
But we will have an opportunity to discuss it.
When is important from the point of view of taxation, we mention everything that needs to be mentioned.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have noticed, the final part of the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors has suffered the consequences of the intrusion of a virus malhadado between his speech and this House.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, relating to issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom and it must be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, popular or the Greens have defended with great vehemence and have been adopted in the Environment Committee.
Mr President, in March of this year we adopted the directive on the tramways intended for the transport of persons.
We believe that must not be to pass on trade obligations producer laid down in the legislation relating to the safety of products.
We have heard the justifications for them and also in favour of repeating the arguments of the sector since that that committee.
Should be enough with the seller report the buyer on the nature of the products and on the scant information provided on them.
Lastly, a question to the Commission in relation to Article 4 with regard to European standards and to the question of whether these rules should be made public.
I am pleased with the exceptions to include establishments institutions and organisations charitable not-for-profit, and for the articles which are marketed as second-hand products in car boot sales or by private individuals.
The reliability in the safety of products and assistance after-sales are a more added value for the European label in a moment particularly difficult and decisive.
When in another context call upon the Commission to present a proposal on the safety of services, it is incomprehensible now that that that regulate jointly aspects relating to services, rather than waiting for the Commission to present its proposal; in fact, already been can foresee that problems will arise demarcation of the scope of the various rules and legal uncertainty will increase over time.
I would like to say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal.
We have also given the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular, the candidate countries: the simplification of procedures to introduce emergency measures at Community level, so that we can intervene promptly following the opinion of a regulatory committee.
This new requirement does not imply any responsibility substantial additional in the case of this type of shops.
Replacing the term "producer" with "provider" , as proposed in amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, since there is no definition of providers in the directive.
Although the Commission is in favour of the creation as soon as possible a network, this point must be agreed between the Member States.
Such a certificate can always be used to provide evidence, but it cannot be considered in itself as a litmus test.
Having explained in detail the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 36 to 34 and part of amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21 and the first part of amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31 and 35 and part of Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21 and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, because they are an improvement and clarification of the Commission' s proposal.
Of course, to Mr Barón Crespo, if it is Italian Socialist cannot be part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
With regard to the order of voting, I leave it to the President' s decision, and I would point out that, in any case, I am against the three amendments.
The Mediterranean countries from outside are, of course, problems particularly serious relating to economic development. regional inequalities are acrecientan endlessly.
With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, for the sake of a European policy harmonised immigration, in addition to the legal instruments to ensure their fair treatment, create instruments for financial support for all those young people who, having completed a cycle of higher studies or university in European countries, wish to return to their country of origin to start to exercise a profession.
I would like to emphasise a factor, which I consider to be very decisive in this matter; the lack of equality in the workplace.
Although belatedly, the Commission presented the programme relating to the Community framework strategy on equality between men and women (2001-2005), which strays markedly from its predecessors and, in particular, the fourth action programme which expires at the end of this year.
On the one hand, because they have taken account of various proposals for improvements tabled by my group and, on the other, because it insists on the need to review the situation of women in the national labour markets and the inadequate access to social security systems on the basis of statistics gathered from data of broken down according to gender.
Mr President, my party has serious reservations with regard to apply Community law to the sale of consumer products, as regards the refusal to implement the concept of mutual recognition of standards.
Now understand it and the amendments labour offer the guarantee that these shops remain intact and will be exempt from the directive.
Finally, amendment No 15 makes it a free hand to the Commission with regard to the language regime of the agency, which we consider to be very worrying.
The simplification of the decision-making procedures, the creation of bases operations of not only in Pristina, where it has acquired the meaning of its separation of Yugoslavia), the treatment of the dual structure between the management board and the Commission, can be positive movements in the direction of tackling the great bureaucratic inadequacy of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
We are therefore voting against both the Commission proposal and Parliament' s report.
Therefore, it seems reasonable to adapt Community rules in this area.
Furthermore, the fund offers the possibility of administrations grant aid more or less hidden in the form of cofinancing by the Member States.
- (EL) despite its serious shortcomings, the Morillon report is undoubtedly more advanced that the Commission' s proposal as regards the partnership European Union - Ôurquía.
We have voted against.
Like the rapporteur, we must admit that Turkey has made progress in some respects and that there are positive signs.
Since 1987 this House had started the path of recognition, and the adoption of this amendment demonstrates the coherence of Parliament in this debate.
The Union must make more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as a strategy geopolitical indispensable.
These ulterior motives are unworthy of Europe and unworthy of Turkey.
For several years, as a member of the Delegation for relations with Canada, I noticed the operation of one of these regional organisations, the OPANO (Organisation of fishing in the Northwest Atlantic), involving the countries of this region, including Canada, and all those who use in this place traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
It is not content until its fleet, cañoneras fly the flags of the "ring of stars" , to monitor compliance with its fisheries policies.
What matters is not, therefore, to satisfy the desire for hegemony of the Commission and weaken the position of Europe, which would be in contradiction with the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, following difficult negotiations, we reached a result worth defending.
Thus, the aim of this proposal seeking to replace three directives on waste incineration is to improve the quality of air, water, soil, people' s health, reducing emissions of pollutants linked to the activities of incineration and co-incineration and, above all, dioxins and furans heavy metals.
However, I also think it is important to stress as novelty now that it is no longer merely emissions into the atmosphere but also of emissions to water and land.
The proposal has been improved during its preparation.
The introduction of limits much more strict NOx emissions for new installations co-incineration, such as cement kilns, is another step forward which will serve as the incentive for reducing emissions, despite the fact that the proposed rules do not reflect best available techniques.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise - especially Mr Blokland, for having arrived a few minutes late.
In conclusion, this directive is an important contribution to reducing the harmful effects on the environment and the risks that they represent to human health.
The European Parliament is to be met, on behalf of discrimination and the fight against the exclusions and on respect for the individual responsibilities, to give a strong boost to the creation of a mechanism which will enable there is specifically the essential principle of solidarity.
There are, however, big differences between the various countries of the Union, and there is a lack of statistical data detailed comparable to see convincing proof of what is in force in each country, what is - and where - what works better, what the weaknesses are, etc. it is precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drafted on behalf of the Committee on economic and monetary policy, underlines the need, before legislating Community rules on insurance supplementary disease, for the Commission to draw up a green paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
Until now, this matter has been considered taboo to some extent.
There is a danger that due to the presence of serious risks people with health problems and elderly people just can take out insurance private limited, which is incompatible with social development.
The second point of view illustrated by the original intention of the rapporteur and shared by many colleagues is to promote regulations and codes of conduct necessary to introduce, between insurers, forms of mutualización costs - guaranteeing all the provision of health care good quality - and to avoid the risk of develop discriminatory practices, as well as a selection of risks and clients.
I think it is quite wrong that the money will be the determining factor to be first in line.
The new proposal from the Committee on employment and social affairs we think it is right: firstly be drawn up an inventory in a Green Paper and then decide whether we need a directive or a recommendation.
At present, in the Netherlands is taking place a debate on the introduction of structural changes in the system.
This is the basis of which was the basis of the Commission to produce an initiative and articulate test specific may become guidelines for the health systems of the Member States.
Therefore, it is unlikely that the answer is a single solution and absolute for all medical insurance.
I therefore believe that we must focus on the content of the report by Mr Rocard, whom we congratulate, which calls on the Commission the provision of a service, a Green Paper which will allow us to be aware of the current state of insurance in the Member States and also define the future.
Both are on a model based on three pillars: the State, the business and private.
As regards supplementary pensions, the European Union has already produced a series of rules. has done so through the drafting of a Green Paper has shown a draft directive.
Mr President, I would like to express my thanks and congratulations to Mr Rocard for his report and congratulate Mr.
This study will form the basis for a Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament to propose initiatives or measures.
In relation to the amendments of the Committee on Budgets, I can say with pleasure that all have been incorporated.
We have supported the characteristic features of the programme, such as the multidimensional treatment of the phenomenon, measures on health, education, housing, consistency and complementarity with other policies related, as well as the participation of non-governmental organisations, and our own people affected by social exclusion.
This means that we must seize stages bottom-up cycle to restore the situation to a balance or surplus.
In this regard simply remind you that the Ecofin Council has requested of the Commission that, as from next year, be included in the assessment of the stability programmes precisely this aspect of long-term public finances on the ageing of the population.
One of the positive features of the programme of the Netherlands is the special attention which provides - as I said earlier - the impact of the ageing of the population in public finances over the next few years.
For that reason, the resulting budget for the year 2000, in the German case, will provide a situation of surplus a point and a half the gross domestic product.
If we add to this the development of the exchange rate of the euro against the dollar, we have had a clear negative impact in terms of inflation.
Also move in the direction of reconcile a public system of distribution systems with private capitalisation and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of investment fund specific can obtain tax advantages in the long term and which can help to deal with the problem of ageing.
The third principle that guides us, then, is the precautionary principle.
It should be remembered that are currently under discussion several proposals regulations, which will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism and, therefore, I hope, the confidence of consumers.
However, this effect relatively low is no reason to be satisfied.
Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday that Prime Minister Jospin there were no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
There is a clear need to find explanations to the increase in the incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
The Food and Veterinary Office of the Commission already gives absolute priority to controls in the Member States in connection with protection measures against BSE.
With regard to their security, let me repeat that there is already a wide range of controls in place to ensure that animal meal do not represent a threat from BSE.
Yes, though it may be difficult to believe, it took four years to adopt a measure that I consider it essential for the protection of public health.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like expressly to demand that the Council made public, at last, its opinion on the regulation on BSE.
In this situation, the only way to break the circle of transmission of BSE is the total ban on using meat-and-bone meal in animal feed.
In this regard, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
Policies have to change this state of affairs so that the real culprits of this crisis are penalised and for specific decisions to allow a first step in order to put an end to this dramatic crisis.
We should, therefore, that revisarlos.
The labelling of beef which has been adopted, which is a minimum labelling and which has been in force for just two and a half months not, properly, the origin of the animals and have banned very late specified risk materials.
The public must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test I have referred to.
At that time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did nothing or almost nothing, as their counterparts nor did nothing about the consequences of Chernobyl, nothing about the AIDS epidemic, nothing about the contaminated blood, provided for the same reason: not to cause panic among the public.
The French ban will lead to an enormous increase in demand, but stocks of this products are limited.
Consumers have lost confidence, and to contain this phenomenon is necessary to generalise the BSE tests to cattle and sheep.
In the direction of the Commission proposal now is far more important to ensure that animal meal meet the highest safety standards.
Moreover, I fully agree - for once and just this once - with regard have said the ladies and gentlemen, Ainardi Auroi and Mrs Grossetête.
Well, gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, have a financial basis enough to carry out a sound policy.
We must tackle it. Mr.
Madam President, Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased to hear here, within this Chamber, that, come what may, we must change the CAP.
We have already denounced in due course, right here, with Jimmy Goldsmith.
Food must be a food safe for human beings.
I think it is very exemplary that France has been quick to take this step.
But that these are not helping them!
For this reason, I am surprised that in these circumstances we continue to be able to use or processing carcasses.
Recently has been published in the UK the Phillips report on BSE.
I would suggest that the European Commission also apply the precautionary principle with regard to beef in France.
We need to know today because we continue in uncertainty, what are the scientific data, what measures to be taken.
Moreover, I have heard all these proposals; I am not insensitive to them.
If representatives of the Member States come and tell me that legislation has not been implemented in its entirety, perhaps we should rethink the subject, but we shall not do so because scientists tell us that it is necessary, but because there are gaps in compliance with the law in the European Union.
The best way of not hear us is not invite us; in any event, Mr.
The Commission considers that for the clarification and the coordination of these policies readmission agreements play an important role and are currently under negotiation in the first Community agreements on readmission with Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Morocco.
What proposals does the Commission in this area on the basis of Article 31 of the Union?
(The President cut the speaker off)
The aim during this period has been reducing the public deficit to achieve a monetary policy policy policy, lower interest rates and greater growth.
I always say that the euro is not introduced on 1 January 2002, the euro is already in our pocket; we have coins with in with, but as we have in their pockets.
Maximum values laid down by Directive 92/72 is not exceeded in the town of Athens, although it should be noted that it is not measurements issued by the middle of the summer.
Subject: State aid to the audiovisual sector in a seminar of the French Presidency on industries related to culture, a representative of the Directorate-General for competition of the European Commission said that the legal obligations investment imposed on television channels constitute state aid by the fact that these investments are imposed with mandatory by the legislator.
It must be respected and protected .
However, it is not obvious, since the new growth is very desigualitario and can be accompanied, as we have seen in the United States since some ten years ago, for persistent phenomena of insecurity, of exclusion, poverty, urban ghettización.
The governments of the Member States did not accept this definition, which is also truth is something simple and too commonplace.
In the atmosphere hostile establishing, many people are on the way and are rejected.
Mr President, in this House, we hear all too often, like a mantra, the glorification of the European social model, of the social market economy which must be set with pride - as many speakers - think the savage model of the United States.
(Technical glitch)
This is a huge amount.
Furthermore, they must be incorporated all political levels.
I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, relocations, rural desertification, hiperconcentración urban, with speeches innovative and practical involving the participation of social partners, local authorities and national and joint action by the citizens.
There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in the fight against social exclusion and the role of the social reforms and structural.
This is a problem of legal nature, since, according to the wording of the Treaty, we can only the reference to social exclusion and not to poverty.
In my opinion, these proposals are a pragmatic response to your question.
But agree on the strategy does not necessarily mean coincide in the detail.
If we define a clear framework and binding on the Member States, the various systems that have to meet such requirements must have a trial period longer.
Renewable energies will not be a panacea for solving this problem, but there is no doubt that, in large part, can help to improve the situation and also diversifying energy sources and to reduce our dependence on hydrocarbons, which furthermore would not at all bad.
I shall repeat three of our demands.
The establishment objectives of undoubtedly to increase people' s confidence in energy policy to be applied.
I believe that a vigorous policy in the field of renewable energy sources is a symbol for the Europe of tomorrow.
Finally, these agreements should allow European countries to fulfil its contribution to achieving the targets set in Kyoto.
It is regrettable that preclude any category that can contribute to achieving the general objective of recovering energy from waste - whether it is small-scale projects as if it is a part of the total calculation.
The shaping of biomass of peat in its fotosíntesis and production of vegetable waste is similar to that of the other vegetable biomasas.
I would like to inform Mr Chichester that off the coast of my people are setting up quickly windmills at sea, a project that certainly is going to come into operation in a very short time, so I would like to invite you to see it when it has been set in motion.
The controversy on the renunciation of nuclear energy, for example in Sweden and Germany, has revealed that unless there are on the horizon alternative energy ecological practicable at a competitive price, the debate is doomed to failure.
For this reason, Member States must be given binding targets.
Therefore, I am optimistic about the future potential for renewable energies, provided that provide the necessary incentives.
I think that we need a great deal of courage to put constantly to renewable energy sources in the place they deserve.
A very strong rise in oil prices, certainly puts us with greater brutality to the problems associated with our dependence on fossil energy sources.
We cannot therefore accept amendment No 28.
However, in doing so, the Commission is well aware that the terms used not prejudge its right of initiative and must be incompatible with the single market in electricity.
In the committee for the reconstruction of Tajikistan, where there are 25 000 widows, only one of the 26 delegates was woman.
In spite of the fact that the proportion of women has been limited, studies have shown that the participation of women in the peacekeeping forces of the UN improving relations with the local population and the moral General.
The report Theorin falls within this area details in very specific and makes repetitions that we as the group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats ask be drawn in the sense of an official document.
From a political point of view, I believe that amendment No 19 can be seen as a defeat tactics or a step backwards tactical instead of a real commitment, which is not worthy of the cause of women.
Were kept imprisoned.
Also Portugal, where women did not have access to diplomacy to "revolution in April 1974" , has demonstrated recently, in the case of East Timor and our ambassador in Indonesia, Ana Gomes, that the role of a woman and his sensitivity to the problems and the suffering of a people that faced alone a fight 25 years for freedom can be ways throughout the world and, in particular, here in the European Parliament.
To date, very few Member States have done so.
It is therefore necessary to take into account this dimension when preparing the policies of the European Union in the future.
Unfortunately, it is not appropriate to define the concepts or distinctions are made.
Please convey to the Council our protest.
Are people with different experiences; necessary experiences in the way in which it exercises policy, especially in the management of the conflict.
The debate is closed.
Which brings me to my second point: if it wishes to regulate the sector, will examine various aspects.
The last few weeks I have learned that there is a great interest on the part of both circles Union international and some trade unions national.
Allegation against two, but then agree with a salary for housewives?
It makes life easier for many families and promotes equal opportunities.
Often, in this project have come together two or three families to put together a person.
We were meeting in plenary this first part-session in October, while we held the debate on the situation in Yugoslavia, when we heard the courageous reaction of the Serbian people, and immediately, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the lifting of sanctions International.
In this way, Europe has shown the vitality of its civilisation, within the framework of world history, and their ability political imagination of its future development.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a problem of democracy.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources, through the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
I must say that, when we listen, I impresioné much for the way in which you controlled such a difficult situation, and at the same time on its determination.
We manage in the next minutes, Mr Watson.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions allows citizens to monitor the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.
I believe that a fifth amendment important is the annual report should examine particularly documents which need to be secret or, at least, are kept secret.
This issue is ambiguous, and it is also possible to enter and remain in force more restrictive rules, so we have tabled amendments on this point, among others.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs rejected the idea of exempting of transparency, and automatically group, to documents relating to foreign affairs and security.
If we want the citizens' rights to be truly effective, we need to these seats start-up staff specifically prepared know that lead to people seeking information through the complicated maze of the institutions.
These are important in order to achieve an internal advertising.
I am pleased that Parliament has managed to create a broad majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for this excellent work.
Mr President, access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy good reputation.
If so, then there is something amiss, because it is the credibility and reliability of the European Union for the citizen.
Documents are much today and we would like to ensure that there is the widest possible access to those different types of documents from the most varied ways possible.
Mr President, the Commission' s position with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the manual internal was sent on 11 October employees of the Commission to inform you of how to handle applications for public access to documents submitted by Members of the European Parliament.
This provision must be eliminated or, at least, so enlarged to include consideration of assessing the interests of the applicant.
The usual way in which develops cooperation at international level with the rules of the game and practices of diplomacy, namely that everything is carried out with the screens reductions, there is no point in the modern cooperation which has developed the EU.
Should not be confused with the role of the European Parliament or with the future interinstitutional agreements.
I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of citizens to information and knowledge.
However, it is not the only he whom I thank, many thanks are also deserves Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen of the PPE-DE Group, which was the author of the motion under a strict application of the Hughes procedure.
Transparency must establish itself as a basic pillar of all activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente itself for the completion of transparency.
The European Parliament asks, then, that the European security and defence policy is introduced in the future in the structures of the European Commission.
When addressed Parliament, on 3 October last, President Prodi referred to the institutional triangle and referred to that in a European system based on checks and balances, fluidity of the operation of each institution contributes to the common interest.
I must admit that the great challenge in this regulation is the precise definition of the documents.
I would like to stress that, in its time, practically, the Commission could accept all the amendments, such as the 9, 18, 21 in part, 23, 25, 26,1, 28 (F), 35, 38, 40,1, 40,6, 41,1, 42, 43,1, 47, 49 and 52.
I sometimes vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Commission, and that means in fact that Members have the list of amendments that the Commission can support and the list of those who do not want to support.
Capital base of banks
Finally, and most controversial, the committee gave a strong call for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation.
These amendments replace several other proposals in the report which will probably be rejected in the vote and they will then be substituidas for these new amendments resulting from this consensus.
Mr President, in view of the excellent vote of support for this report and given the response from the Commission this morning, it is obvious - if you look at all the parts on which we voted - that, under Article 2 (69) of the Rules of procedure, we should postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution to initiate fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, I am sorry if I said that the PPE-DE Group had also requested that the vote be postponed, but its coordinator is acercó me and told me that they also wanted to postpone the matter until the part-session in November II, rather than voting now.
Why would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels stated - this is a very important issue.
I do not know how much it costs the roll-call vote, but it is certainly of hundreds of thousands of francs, or Belgian francs, of our budget.
I know that in France have been slaughtered entire herds and do not believe that this is the best way forward.
Removing meal of animal feeding all animals, not just the cattle and sheep, but also the pig, poultry and fish,
This is not acceptable.
It is on provisions such as consumers will be reassured and farmers hear the message of solidarity that we want to convey to you.
There is a pressing need to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
The ban on the use of animal meal in animal feed is merely the first step in this direction.
We very much regret, however, that the amendments tabled by our Group were not adopted.
I think it would be sensible to reduce the working hours of people working in companies that pollute.
I shall conclude by insisting once again on the fact that the generalisation of exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead us to adapt to the production of such waste.
Indeed, if, for example, had larger pensions enough to live, there would be less poor.
The report raises a budget of EUR 100 million over five years to reduce poverty.
I therefore give my unreserved support to the proposal to set up a Luxembourg process (A) in the field of social exclusion, which includes guidelines and national action plans.
Indeed, the report calls for an annual qualitative and quantitative indicators of social exclusion.
In presenting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is complying with the request of the Council to submit "for June 2000" a "initiative for cooperation in this field" .
Mr President, I abstained on a very specific reason: this report, in my view, has not done from the ecological point of view, these progress that I hoped and auguraba.
I trust that this system is extended to all the cities of Europe.
Some of the proposals of the European Parliament are unrealistic and cannot count on my support.
We must also be able to achieve better in the future to be more publicly known good practices exist.
The people who have high incomes and are aware of the environment have the freedom to choose cleaner energy within a free market, while the rest is still not be able to choose.
The next item is firstly the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
These three reasons are as follows: firstly, because makes the process of consolidating democracy and the deepening of the requirement of respect for human rights, particularly in relation to the indigenous populations.
Mr President, in this debate we express, as well as has been said by other speakers on the floor, solidarity and support of our institution the Central American Parliament at a time when we are fighting for maintaining the priority in the area of the European Union' s external relations with the countries of Latin America.
I have no reservations which he has been able to express our colleague and friend, the chairman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the question of human rights.
Finally, in the dialogue with the authorities centroamericanas, the Commission is also by reiterating the importance to be given to the process of regional integration as an instrument for consolidating the democratisation and development in the area.
To cling to power has not hesitated to grab the obsessive debate on "marfilidad" , causing a wave of xenophobia: hatred of other abroad, the original Burkina or the Malian and yet there are many people working and living in the territory of Côte d'Ivoire for many years.
The establishment of a true democracy in Côte d'Ivoire cannot be done without the creation of an independent commission of inquiry of the crimes committed and without the formal commitment to respect human rights and civil peace.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time at the time, but I believe that no compromise is possible with democracy and the question being asked today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that arises for example in Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
I shall conclude with the following question: dictatorships exist, Mr President, just because there are people who suffer from misery, who have no access to know, who have no access to knowledge.
It would be illogical that the European Union demand today the holding of new presidential elections in which could participate, this time, all the candidates.
This is in many parts of Africa with the most diverse mixtures religious and ethnic.
These elections must allow representation at national level of the political parties that are excluded in the presidential election and compensate for this, if only partially, the imperfections of this first choice.
On the situation in Burma
They are doing a great offensive against the Shan people and against the Karen people and, as said the rapporteur of the UN, there is no sign whatsoever of dialogue between the SPDC and the national League for Democracy.
Therefore, we reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the Commission and the Council in this direction.
I hope that by giving priority to this issue as a matter of urgency, this Parliament will send a clear message to the people of Burma that their plight is not forgotten and that we recognise that the situation in Burma is getting worse rather than better and we are determined to try to do something about it.
It has been a long time be achieved.
In Asia precisely there is a danger that economic reforms and policies is desacoplen, that may have economic progress and economic liberalisation without liberalisation in the political sphere and without strengthening the rule of law, although I am of the opinion that without a constitutional state that functions, trade, aid and investment will have been lost in the long term.
Mr President, I agree with my predecessors on the floor with many essential points to what has been said, because much of what is now happening in Vietnam is not acceptable.
However, now says human Rights Watch, referred to Mr Swoboda, that Vietnam gave at the last time some steps to improve the situation regarding human rights.
These documents extremely secret provide us with a strange look behind the scenes of the policy of the Vietnamese administration.
The Commission remains convinced, however, that can only be achieved a lasting solution to the current situation through a dialogue between the military regime, the opposition democratically elected and representatives of ethnic minorities.
There are also clear pressure by the Vietnamese authorities to its own press has a regime of self-censorship.
The next item, I must now the debate on the following motions for resolutions:
Also we demand that the EU give aid and assistance, not only in the south-west but in all areas that have been affected.
I would ask you all to support our resolution.
It is urgent that the Union is not restricted to deploy actions character of disasters have occurred.
The Commission has taken two initiatives in this respect.
Mr President, there has been an error purely linguistic by introducing one of the amendments in the joint resolution.
The vote on your participation means postponing the task to the Commission.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The report is based on the fact that an ever increasing proportion of the insurance in Europe is covered by insurance complementary.
I think it is odd that wants to be it is to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
At a time when the ageing population dramatically, it is crucial that we try to improve the health system for people throughout Europe.
We could not contribute to this.
Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of the fast track when it comes to implementing the results of the review of Basel on capital adequacy banking.
Under these conditions, such an initiative would rather the opposite effect to the expected to impose our banking sectors additional obligations without guarantees compensation. despite the orders of this House, the Commission does not have any means of guaranteeing that the banks of the European Union will no longer be subject to discriminatory treatment by the American authorities.
We must take care that Basle, moreover, does not produce that banks will cause a second ballast demand a higher capital.
This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach which has been giving these regulations on capital which reinforce the issues relating to risk.
These are the first thoughts of how we could achieve a legislative process quickly that outside controllable and efficient within the current rules of the Treaty.
And, indeed, the time has come to admit that the institution of the "European Ombudsman" is sufficiently developed and has already given sufficient proof of maturity in order to have its own budget.
The EPP group/ED supports the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Ombudsman' s mandate should be extended and the sooner the better, particularly the Ombudsman' s powers of investigation laid down in Article 3 of the 1994 decision.
An Ombudsman is obviously limited by the rules governing secrecy documentary, but it is good that the citizens know that he or she, as Ombudsman, may have access to the documents that they themselves do not have.
The starting point of this report is the recommendation of the ombudsmann to the Commission, in relation to this, which make it possible for the candidates access to their examinations already corrected regarding the selection procedure organised by the same.
We believe that the Community institutions should carry out its procedures for recruitment, and indeed all its procedures, with maximum openness and transparency in order to avoid suspicions of partiality, injustice and administrative incompetence.
I am referring here to an amendment concerning the requirement to the test the development of the proof oral, for example.
Mr Bösch has already explained briefly here the amendments that have been made to this report.
Having paths put questions to the Commission on the management and organisation of the last internal opposition, received specific answers and detailed.
It begins to open the process of the government and to do so transparent.
Firstly, in the tests being made by the Commission, the corrections are always anonymously.
Obviously I was talking about July 2000.
VOTE
(Parliament rejected the proposal to postpone the vote)
To assess the directive on own resources institutes credit must be carefully balanced the various interests that this conflict.
Then came the idea of a European police college for the Member States of the European Union and for the candidate countries.
This is the position defended by the rapporteur and that the European People' s Party shares.
The social situation in most Member States of the European Union is such that there is a great need for cooperation between the different police forces beyond the borders of their own country.
It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the College has a permanent headquarters.
The umpteenth interim decision but not precarious, a regalito that the Council tends to be done in this Parliament.
The rapporteur wishes to add the prevention of crime, the provision of services, innovation and border surveillance and also wants to change internal security in order to include the maintenance of law and order.
Those were the ideals we proposed and that was the kind of State by the working.
I welcome the possibility of levelling standards of some Member States of the European Union.
Since the first thoughts on this dossier made at European level on the initiative of the European Parliament, the Commission undertook to Member States to put forward an action intended to develop what we could consider a culture European police underpinned by the highest standards of ethics, respect for citizens' rights and freedoms and effectiveness in the fight against crime.
It claims that the Police College develops above all from a perspective intergovernmental.
For the reasons relating, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
- (SV) I have voted against the report on provisional establishment of the European Police College.
Certainly many of our courts are very slow and ponderosos, and it is very difficult to make act quickly in these matters.
Of course, the proposed regulation is not perfect, since it connects with the regulation "Brussels II" , which does not include children whose parents are separated, as well as children extramatrimoniales.
My own mother was such a separation and kidnapping 85 years ago, and even talk about this.
Therefore, what I would like to say to Parliament that it is in the action programme on the mutual recognition of judgments in civil matters - which we hope adoption by the end of this year, the Commission is proposing to grant first and top priority to the extension of the scope of the Brussels II regulation and, consequently, of this regulation on the right to visit, covering without discrimination to the children of married couples and the unions.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
Today, sport - and it has to be said, is closely linked to other economic sectors, such as the industries of the audiovisual sector or the promotion and sale of products sports.
What we need is a reasonable and flexible to interpret the current rules.
It is, strictly speaking, an attack on democracy, however much we avoid seeing things in this light.
That is why the Commission this waiting to receive an answer to your request detailed information on the measures planned by the UK Government.
This proposal was submitted by the Minister for the Economy in statement a a a six months before the presentation of the draft budget completely in the spring of 2001.
Again, I think that what was said by Mr Simpson has been of great help to reassure us on the probable intentions of the UK Government.
Jams are not just a waste of time, not only generate high costs, but for the environment are a problem, and therefore I believe, if the British Government allocated really money to solve these problems, then all receive something of this, especially all Europe' s citizens.
We are practically the only producer of oil from the European Union and yet we have the higher prices of petrol prices higher diesel compared with any other country in Europe - in Britain we are paying GBP 1.20 per litre of diesel.
This item is closed.
The European Parliament must tell them that is on your side, and I propose that, once again, to express a minute' s silence our solidarity and our emotions.
Madam President, I fully support it, since I am one of those who have asked for the inclusion of this point.
We some important steps forward.
The EU will deepen its relations with all the groups important and will also in contact with the new government of the United States as soon as possible.
Prescott on the agreement which he himself had produced, how is it that not only Mrs Voynet, but also - I believe - most of the other European environment ministers - and this is my last question to the Commissioner - rejected it?
It is to be feared that has been lost momentum and the American negotiators change and in may have to start again.
Forests have been this time the major obstacle.
Part of the soil of the countries of the European Union will become sea or desert as a result of continuous warming to which they are subjected.
The level of wealth is high and the price of oil products low.
I congratulate Commissioner Wallström for their efforts in The Hague and I wish you more successful.
No doubt it was better not to agree to have a bad agreement, and in this case the American position was a position of rebates, totally unacceptable for Europe.
Climate change have major consequences in developing countries.
I would like to repeat it in English: forest turns from being carbon sinks to carbon sources.
Only this credibility will enable the European Union adopt the position and action in the COP VI "B" in Bonn.
We are going to have to do our own assessment of what happened and prepare documents to be in contact with the various parties and, of course, with the group representation of.
Of course, the follow-up to the next COP6 or the continuation of COP6 will be the ratification of an agreement within the Union.
Before the European Council, Pierre Moscovici and I myself will be the next Sunday a ministerial conclave to which I have invited Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, as well as a sitting of the IGC, on Monday, at the General Affairs Council.
The minimum number of Member States were to participate was to limit to, and the clause appeal to the European Council, which is currently a genuine right of veto, being replaced by a right of knowledge.
We should regret it, but I am obliged to make this observation.
The European Council will also be discussing the progress of accession negotiations, and therefore of enlargement.
The Lisbon European Council had approved guidelines to promote a European economy innovative and competitive.
Consumer protection is a growing concern of Europeans, for obvious reasons that do not require further explanation.
We must prepare for this unprecedented enlargement.
Unfortunately, the current text of the Conference is very complicated, very ambiguous and very long, with two protocols: however, despite this broad and this complication, is also very weak, has not made the simple answer is for the simple problem that we have a long time ago.
(Applause)
One was that the candidate Member States themselves should adopt and apply the "acquis communautaire" ; that is the task we share with us.
We appreciate very much the Charter of Fundamental rights and we do not want to confine ourselves to declamarla.
It is true that its wording could have been better, and it can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
I find it unacceptable that several governments have refused outright to consider the possibility of including a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
You do not even want to introduce it in the Treaty and in evidence that this document, this exercise had to be set aside.
We will speak with a single thankless and vote in the WTO.
Given the dubious prospects of success, I do not think it is right bear the Intergovernmental Conference with another matter extremely complex and controversial.
I appeal urgently to the French Presidency in order to make every effort to remove this gap, since it is extremely destructive.
In terms of commercial policy, the Commission has drawn up a proposal which must be examined carefully.
But in the previous Treaty some progress was made in the implementation of this formula, also brought the absurd formula codecision more unanimity in matters relating to citizenship, social security, the rights of the self-employed and cultural policy.
The simple statement on this issue, is in itself clearly shows the failure of a policy of strengthening of ties of mutual trust between the countries of the Union.
This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody renunciation of its plaything.
This year' s experience compels us to say that the impetus should be given to the process of constitutionalisation of the Union after Nice and looking to the future of Europe must not be left to the method, already exhausted, reserved negotiation between the representatives of the governments.
As you just said Mr Prodi, if not adopting a rule on the majority decision-making is an obstacle to irremediably.
In our debate today nothing was said on that aspect of subsidiarity, but it is very important.
We did this happened, the 1995 enlargement, came the Reflection Group who chaired rightly great great big wine, Amsterdam and now we are going to have Nice and we almost like, Mr President: thinking about institutional matters, without finding solutions that will enable us to sell an ambitious task, which is that enlargement to 27.
Let us not add to the disappointment that will lead to the Nice Summit, if that Nice is, of course, it is futile, the disappointment caused to the peoples by our Parliament.
In the past, we are showing that this objective was achievable and, as a representative of a Member State that has benefited from a transition planned for accession, I hope with positive attitude the achievement of an enlarged Europe and peaceful.
But we must understand that if you are the right of veto, also have the others.
But we must also make a first transition for Parliament to be elected in 2004, because at least some Member States will join before the new Parliament elected in 2004 or during your term of office until 2009.
The President-in-Office of the Council has dealt with the issue of closer cooperation and said that we move towards a consensus in this regard.
Mr President, at first sight, Nice is the necessary adjustments and issues still unresolved for enlargement.
If we had something of this mentality, if we were to do less emphasis on what is going wrong in this part of the world and we put more emphasis on what is going well, it would be more fortunate than we are at the moment.
Majority decisions to be taken in the Council must not only apply to goods, but also other related areas such as services, investment, intellectual property and competition. Article 1 (133) has changed in that direction.
The European Parliament' s right of initiative would open the way for the arbitrariness of political parties invading ended this area also highly sensitive.
Therefore, as one of you said, by referring to the American optimism and the way in which the Americans talk about themselves, we should also stress what works and what is progressing.
I would also say that I do not believe that there is a problem between small and large countries.
We have worked hard, but we are facing this old problem, and I do not think we can start an evolution by the action of a single country, because we are facing, once again, in twelve of the fifteen Member situations - national policies, democratic - very important.
Lastly, Mr President, Mr Védrine you showed a situation too tense and also mentioned pessimism.
Will he take you, furthermore, measures in general to enhance safety forms of that cannot happen again something similar?
In my opinion, we must take precautions right - something that we have not yet done - to the guests of this Parliament can be pleased, without having to be frightened to potential threats. the objective is to create the necessary technical conditions, both from the point of view of the organisation as from the security point of view.
Here, hospitality; there, hospitality and respect.
Thank you for your contribution, Mr Tajani.
The best tribute to Lluch Ernest and his memory would be to respect their message - diàleg, in Catalan: can we offer the opportunity all the Basque people?
On the other hand, each can certainly express its opinion.
(B5-0550/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on foreign Affairs, Human Rights, common security and defence policy, to the Commission, on the political situation in Afghanistan and humanitarian aid.
When I speak of organisation I should also like to say that, given the enormous efforts made by the European Union, it is logical that it is the responsibility of the same.
Secondly, you see in the resolution will very clear of Parliament to base the security and defence policy on two pillars: balanced civilian crisis management and, in the event of failure, military crisis management, since both are complementary pillars.
- (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay and we also my duty, I will try to be brief the speech I had prepared.
These relations are plasmarán specifically in meetings between the North Atlantic Council and the COPSI and at meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European countries candidates or allies.
Consider, for example, what has happened in the Balkans, where it can be said that each has played its full role.
In this period we have kept fully informed the United States progress under way under the European security and defence policy, which is a prerequisite for the same develops in harmony, as is the case at the moment.
In the European Parliament was the second edition of the European Union' s annual report on human rights. 13 December will be organised in Paris a forum dedicated to human rights.
This policy, you say no, ambition, compete with the Atlantic Alliance, which today remains the basis of the collective defence of its members, or create a European army permanent.
Furthermore, although I mentioned the figure of 100,000 60,000 troops, this does not mean that ambicionemos overcome the objective laid down in Helsinki, but that we have a reserve in qualifications and in different specialities, which makes it possible to ensure that could be achieved the men which correspond to the objective of the Council, beyond the operational conditions of their use.
Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, refer briefly to the political sense deep, approved by a large part of public opinion, and this new task, whereby Europe becomes a tool of political influence it was missing.
We are now facing the problem to ensure that, when we talk about consolidation of liberal democracy in Europe, we refer to the entire European continent, because this is enlargement and the enlargement process.
We must integrate three ramales into a coherent whole: Community policies, CFSP, including the ESDP, and national measures of the Member States.
Even with our cumbersome procedures of the Commission, we do not need a force of 60,000 soldiers to achieve our objectives.
We must therefore establish urgently a solution of humanitarian aid.
While it is true that I do not agree with the cynics who say that Europe achieves this with a new game impracticable, it is true that the rapid reaction force will not be versatile in many situations.
The EU should not develop a defence system itself with regular troops.
Finally I would like to express my group' s concern at the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do their utmost to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now at the entrance to the winter.
To put it simply: where, when and how must act the European rapid reaction force.
May understand the terrible stock of these two months "intifada" : 270 10,000 dead, most Palestinians, and over injured, often baldados for life.
That is why his relentless efforts will serve to create an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction extremely bleak.
Secondly, contrary to what the previous speaker said, I do not know whether it is possible or desirable for the European Union to do more than what is before the conflict and the escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, in the transitional period in which are the United States.
Mr President, in my speech I shall focus on dealing with Mrs Lalumière' s report, which, in my view, is well thought-out and expresses clearly.
There is a political concept and really does not yet exist a common foreign and security policy.
The EU has only one problem, namely that has so far not been able to awaken the interest of the public by such measures even though they are much more sustainable and effective.
Mr President, then there is, of course, the budget; how to share it.
And I say this, despite the huge amount of apparent that guarantees on this matter have arisen miraculously in recent days.
We should work together and in a coordinated fashion. we should move towards a better European policy on procurement in order to have a defence industry more efficient than offers greater value in return for the money.
Even those who question the usefulness of the decision, for example, to create called The the should the repair in the important political dimension of this decision and its influence in the cohesion of the European Union.
It has been so historic first the presence of a defence minister in this House we have reserved the night sitting so that the impression is not too strong for our Members.
For all of them, a civil crisis management preventive is a better way than military solutions.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with an undemocratic regime?
Therefore, Europe will not be a new alliance, as I have heard mention in an argument informed so incomplete.
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 5 (42) of the Rules of procedure, to wind up this debate.
Given the scale of the task, was given to four committees and established a procedure unprecedented, with four parallel reports.
All the measures proposed in the White Paper must agree to modernise and make effective all the functioning of the Commission.
Therefore, it would be appropriate for the reform outside the opportunity to restrict his speech only in areas that do not involve expenditure.
The differences of opinion that arose were not only of a political nature, but even more reflected the cultural differences between the Fifteen.
The new internal audit service, under the direct responsibility of you, Mr Kinnock, the Vice-President responsible for reform will be main task the analysis of the functions and systems of internal control that exist within the Commission.
It has been a pleasure to work together and I believe that the process to address a crucial reform of the Commission, which is essential for the future of the European Union, has had a depth and wealth added thanks to the participation of us four.
May have expectations of relocation to other European institutions, implementation of committees of services in the national administrations or work in the private sector.
In this way, our constitutional committee recalls its attachment to a Commission strong, independent, efficient, transparent and politically responsible.
As the Committee on Budgets consider that the introduction of activity-based budgeting causes us problems because of the lack of visibility of expenditure and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament as a budgetary authority.
This will mark, of course, the goodwill of this Parliament to pursue this reform with the Commission.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
This is shameful if we take into account that the EU itself is the first supporter of the modernisation of economic life.
Mr President, despite the efforts of the rapporteurs to support the work of the Commission, is that the recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts is not yet a global and coherent response with a view to a policy of government and not only to better management of the institution.
This change of attitude should result in the transparency of the administration.
In my view, in the world is not a structure that magazine greater significance and fundamental: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, an entire continent; the part of the globe currently most industrialised late in the Union and, through it, in the Commission through its structures.
The change is never easy.
In doing so, however, from the Socialist Group believe that the current functioning of the European public service is quite effective.
The result is well known, has indicated that the commitment and the competence of the many members of the Commission and its administration.
Many thousands of requests for projects are already more than a year waiting for an evaluation.
The debate, as we have seen, is not so much of principles, objectives or opportunity of reform, the procedures, pace, timetable, possible malfunctions or unintended consequences of its application.
I should like to begin by informing the House that at its meeting this morning, as has been pointed out before Mr van Hulten, the College has adopted a draft interinstitutional agreement for the establishment of an advisory group on basic standards in public life, as provided for in action 1 of the action programme of the White Paper.
Furthermore, these changes, it is clear that would only be possible with a modification of the Treaties.
The main aim is to achieve a simplification, increase the transparency and strengthen the budgetary principles, that is, in particular less derogations, less special arrangements incomprehensible and increase the efficiency and effectiveness in the budgetary procedure.
It is simply very uneconomic for the Commission to according to contracts for costs X has to be reimburse 20% for costs and 30%, and it is often together and check the evidence of sums very small.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0337/2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and cooperation, on the effectiveness of the European Union' s relations with the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission in these relations (2000/2051(INI)).
The latter relate in particular to the NGOs.
Of course, that is not enough, but with everything must be protected from the cartoons on the shortage of our development aid.
Once again this now because it is a good framework in itself.
Mr President, I returned today Mozambique where the European Union has been responsible for a brilliant humanitarian aid following the disaster of the floods, but, once again, the reconstruction projects, to which we have already allocated money, are behind pending signatures in Brussels.
Faced with these realities, the need for greater involvement and greater efficiency in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment is inevitable.
We now have a harmonised approach to produce country strategy papers and programmes cooperation of all the developing countries.
In addition, the creation of the SEM failed to provide a solution to the continuing disparity between 8 bulky administrative resources.
- (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the reason I had a very strong interest for being here with you today in this debate on the first package sea in the European Parliament, is that you are going to consider three important texts, which are an essential first step on a topic that recent events have placed, unfortunately, the front page of today.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford, moreover, to discuss with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals put forward by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with qualified majority if necessary.
The rapid treatment and specialised who had result in the two Erika packages and six proposals has generated an enormous boost.
The lesson that Parliament must retain this morning is that undoubtedly maritime law is throughout the world in a state of vagueness and we have to start the process of put in order.
We must give a clear signal that in water and European ports we will not tolerate vessels which do not meet the standards.
For the smaller ships, we adopted a position of compromise between the limit of 5,000 tonnes, raised by the IMO, and that of the 600 proposed by the Commission.
These data should be made available to the European authorities, state and port, as well as the public interest.
The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, designed to the need for a framework of Community cooperation in the field of accidental contamination.
In the cooperation at local level have been included organisations for the protection of nature.
Amending the directive in the direction of greater rigour in its application, harmonisation of the laws, particularly as regards the selection of vessels subject to inspection and the scope of the different types of inspection, is clearly positive.
I should like to point out once again that there is no urgency, where you persist.
I believe that in the case of the limit liability of classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today, it is essential that the Council and Parliament will reflect together on this.
The black box, a black list and everything else we believe to be excellent ideas and we fully agree with them, but I would like to stress a few points.
Faced with this catastrophic situation and anarchic of maritime transport, Europe has accepted the challenge and eleven months after the Erika, the European Union will be in a position to announce that never any procedure has worked so quickly.
It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is opposed to a high degree of safety at sea.
Finally, regardless of the technical measures to be taken, one of the largest sources of uncertainty will continue to exist in not both both, both in the area of the channel and the North Atlantic, the exponential growth traffic arising from excessive pandering to the North Sea ports.
I would be to our credit to the current President-in-Office of the Council have the situation in their own country.
Mr President, since the sinking of the oil tanker Erika have been tabled under political pressure a series of measures in order to increase the safety of ships at sea.
Greek ships collapsed without further, Mr Gayssot, without storms.
Thirdly, when we talk about reports of this kind, it seems to me that it is becoming clear that are not linking the relationship between, on the one hand, the supply of oil and, on the other hand, the fact that it is still use fossil fuel.
Therefore, we finally have the political courage to our environmental ambitions.
This means that, in this field more than in any other, our responsibility is huge, and that we must, in my view, silence any sign of self-respect institutional.
For example, in Finland is of the utmost importance that Russia sign these agreements.
It is a question of tightening up the requirements for the construction of vessels oil tankers, of improving the rules for port controls and greater severity rules for organisations of inspection and peritaje of vessels, which is a consequence of this.
Mr President, today we are debating maritime safety based on three reports whose rapporteurs sincerely congratulate her.
With regard to these three new proposals on maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs, who have shown deadlines in in that Parliament is very determined to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, controls, the construction standards and that it is intolerable that similar accidents happen again.
Madam President, in the recent past several marine accidents considerable consequences, especially those in the who were involved oil tankers, have shaken our continent.
More than 80% of accidents are connected with human error, but there are reasons for human error, which are social order.
A parliamentary or parliamentary has used the term "traceability" .
The directive state control of the port is designed to monitor compliance with international requirements and not to introduce new rules.
Amendment No 18 introduces state control of the port because in relation to rest periods of seafarers, although the application of the provisions relating to the working hours of seafarers is already fully covered by Directive 99/95.
I am pleased to see that the rapporteur has introduced in amendment No 21 a reference to the system of evaluation of the conditions and we agree with the proposal perspective, however it is necessary that meets the wording for clarification.
Amendment No 4 and part of No 18 on the item K are not acceptable.
I can assure you that if a shipowner intends to include a ship in the register, following our proposal must pensárselo twice.
The Commissioner spoke for 18 minutes, and in the meantime, mentioned dozens and dozens of articles, and rejected the Commission' s position.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a range of actions relating to the trans-European network, collection of creating and disseminating statistics on the challenges of goods intra-European and extra-comunitarios (EDICOM) (COM(00)0458 - C5-0401/00 - 2000/0201(COD)) (Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs)
However, by withdrawing the resolution, I am convinced that, with a view to the Nice Council, Parliament would have done better to hear your voice devoting a specific resolution and different issues as important and difficult to the Intergovernmental Conference, instead of treating them in the context of a single resolution which includes all the other items on the agenda of the Council.
(Since there have been more than twelve Members, the oral amendment was rejected) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5-0337/2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and cooperation, on the effectiveness of relations between the European Union and the developing countries, and the impact of the reform of the Commission on these relations (2000/2051(INI))
I voted against to register my protest at the fact that the European Union fails still intervene and should also in this area.
Despite that neither the amendment of the existing directive on control of vessels or the Watts report correspond to the real needs, give certain steps in a positive sense, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
We regret that the Commission' s proposal has not taken up the idea of the creation of a genuine monitoring body of along the lines of the "coast guards" in the United States.
- (EL) precondition for the safety of ships, for the protection of life at sea and environmental protection is the fight against the immunity enjoyed by the shipowners, the adoption of strict measures for the control of the situation of vessels and imposing strict penalties to shipping companies which violate safety standards; similarly, improving working conditions of workers in the Merchant Navy, and providing proper training, as well as ensuring organic constructions which respond to the growing needs of ships.
The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, has done the opposite.
The sinking of the Erika, in December 1999, is at the root of the emergence of the issue of maritime safety in the agenda Community policy and was under pressure from the European Parliament as the Commission proposed the texts we have today voted, almost a year after this sinister shipwreck.
The current compensation funds have not been adequately equipped and this has become more obvious in the case of the Braer disaster, in which the fishing industry of the Shetland Islands has not been properly compensated for their losses.
Madam President, I have already said that a few years ago I had the opportunity to navigate.
The rapporteur' s proposals concerning the harmonisation at European level are entirely positive.
This is an important paragraph as it concerns the classification societies of ships.
It would be rather a great success, since the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a rigid Europe, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe and closer to the people, therefore based on respect for national democracies.
The fight increasingly open for power between many Member States muddies the possibility of reaching a compromise.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU has efficient institutions.
One week after the summit, I personally hope.
Nor am I in favour of linking automatically qualified majority voting and codecision and also believe that any initiative to extend the powers of codecision must be undertaken on a case-by-case basis.
When amending Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend qualified majority voting, which is currently in force in the Council for the trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
In this way Parliament independent of the right of influence, keeps quiet as tribute to the partidismos, the fidelidades and national governments and forgets its obligations towards the citizens.
I have also voted against a text which calls for the integration of the Charter of fundamental rights in the future Treaty is adopted in Nice.
It is a mistake to divide the Union into two groups, and that is why I cannot support the idea that a third of the Member States is at the helm.
Your new role has put an end to the neutrality of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Austria.
In this report there are many things that the group of the Consevadores British can support, in particular the emphasis placed on the enlargement of the European Union.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have supported the report on the creation of a common European policy in the field of security and defence.
But also against the peoples of the European Union will have to finance, in any case, the new armament spending proposed in the report and which does not even have the guarantee that the military forces are not used a day against themselves, in the name of "policing" .
Just as serious is the pretence that a state which does not wish to take part in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution repartirán states participating in that war.
However, with military means outside is not achieved any solution, because it does not remove the causes of the conflict or change public opinion.
· that military operations should be financed with a budget line Community and Member States having to contribute funds even if it does not wish to take part in operations (Paragraphs 49 and 50).
Instead, the EU would suit that it would invest the priorities of the Petersberg tasks and address the attention towards options humanitarian and civilians.
I support this report by my colleague Maj-Britt Theorin.
But there is no mention the needs of this category to give way to the demand for a tax deducibilidad services household and of a "adaptation of prices and costs to the financial possibilities of individuals" .
In fact, it is extraordinary that in the 21st century we have to recommend that Member States should guarantee for employees domestic the right to social security and a proper retirement.
For many young people, its first contact with the labour market can be a undeclared work.
What is more serious is above when it comes to women from distant countries, who took this type of work by necessity and which have no other means of earning a living in a sustainable manner.
The reform of the Commission will be judged by the facts, hence the need for monitoring reports regular presented during the entire period of duration of the programme and the importance of full account waited for December 2002.
In the recent past, various scandals and failures concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
In conclusion, I consider it essential to remember that through this reform, which is essential for the future, we look at the same time more rigorous and more transparency on the part of the Commission in its day-to-day management, but also a greater sense of responsibility for its part, within the strict framework of its powers.
Conservatives we also support the statement in paragraph 7 of the report by which it should guarantee democratic control and allowing operating the system of the three pillars.
(The sitting was closed at 13.15 p.m.)
We have received information - and I would like to add immediately not that that that at all - that the President-in-Office of the Council and French Head of State is going to appear here tomorrow only 30 minutes to speak.
It therefore seems to me that we should exclude that we can have a well-considered position and argued.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
During the night work has been done in both these texts and in the figures relating to the distribution of votes in the Council and the distribution of seats in Parliament.
Madam President, I would urge that there be removed from the agenda the report by Mr de Roo, since, in addition to be extremely well prepared, in the last Council of Environment of the French Presidency, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday of next week, it is planned to prepare a common position on this matter.
Thank you, Mr Parish.
At meetings of the Committee on foreign Affairs, Human Rights, common security and defence policy, in his capacity as chairman, sits there and smokes.
The political basis is clear: harmonising the market respecting a high level of public health and consumer protection on the basis both in the existing regulations as well as the development of scientific knowledge.
What is at stake their quality and concept of life, where the protection of health is a very relevant weight.
This rule can also be applied to all drugs fun but dangerous, if no one else that the consumer can be affected.
Recently in the United States they have earned trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of products.
We believe that the only possible and consistent is to put an end to the export of cigarettes are prohibited in the EU for health reasons.
Instead of drawing lessons from the failure recorded in Luxembourg on 9 October last, we insist on an attitude legally indefensible.
I have carefully analysed what the Commissioner said to my colleague Mr Hume: there can be no massive loss of jobs in this sector.
Parliament and the Council are those who have to approve this proposal for a directive and examine, among other things, the appropriate legal basis for this.
Maaten and others - there is a danger that, if this Parliament and the Council accept the restrictive interpretation which propose the leader of the European People' s Party and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this Parliament, the Council and the Community institutions as a whole would be tying our hands to the legislative development of the Community institutions, so that it is important for the development of Community law.
The weak point of this proposal is that stressed the promotion of free competition.
In conclusion, since the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Parliament has powers of coordination in environmental issues and consumer protection, and collaborate closely, of course, with the Council and the Commission in this area.
In fact this has nothing to do with tobacco, but the judgment of the Court of Justice could have been dictated also to ban the advertising of alcohol or advertising chocolate because, of course, sugar can also be harmful to health.
I simply do not understand that a majority of this Parliament wishes to propose to relax the rules relating to export more than propose their own governments of the Member States - Governments also representing the many industries that refers.
It is an established fact that 80% of smokers want to be, but in the tobacco sector encourages very few policies to help these people to stop smoking.
If we insist on to tell other countries what levels of public health should set by extending export our reasonable proposals for the internal market threatens all the good work done by Mr Maaten.
We want to reach a method of evidence recognised in all countries of the EU, to be carried out in a given country in a laboratory testing recognised.
Today is openly acknowledge the effects on health of tobacco consumption, and both legislators as public opinion share the feeling that the time has come to adopt rules and strict regulations in this area.
Consequently, rules The the perfectly in the future international agreements, thus avoiding the risk of barriers to trade and at the same time strengthening the protection of consumers and guaranteeing a high level of health protection.
It would be preferable to wait until we have dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
As regards laboratory tests, the amendment relating to the adoption of evidence is superfluous, since other article already provides for the movement of goods which comply with the provisions of the directive.
Madam President, this report is not complications: at present, the directives on the summertime are only five years in force, and then have to come back to Parliament for its renewal.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the provisions on summer-time, that there are discussed, is a good proposal.
I therefore believe that in this House should not take too long on this subject, because the Member States, as well as the population, have already accepted largely regulation of summer time and it has been recognised as part of our annual rate.
In my opinion, it is appropriate that issues relating to slots and with the implementation of the provisions of the summer time left, in accordance with the proposal in the area of decision making in the Member States.
It would be more justified that summer-time terminase at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
It can accept submitting appropriate proposals on the basis of the conclusions of the report 2007 referred to in Article 5.
It is clear that cannot be accepted human germ line intervention.
Indeed, I believe that an ethics committee in the working people who does this work as main profession, he can grant a slightly longer term, but on the authorities should exert pressure of time for rapidly to work.
These groups should remain within the scope of the directive.
But I am also pleased that we have managed to take a cerrojazo to therapy.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
These programmes are linked to the fight against cancer, with the prevention of AIDS, the prevention of drug dependence and promoting health; and the adjournment would mean an end to the projects and the work of the networks that were created for this purpose.
It is a very good thing to prepare the ground a priori, so that, even in the event that it is necessary to make a second reading, be very close to the point at which decisions are taken.
Furthermore, we must bear in mind that both prevention and promotion and monitoring are becoming increasingly important and therefore we should give them more budgets and give them more important.
Madam President, during the Trakatellis report on the extension of European programmes that exist in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what way is evolving European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given in principle their consent.
In the European Union is currently the paradox that the abolition of internal borders for the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must live with the maintenance of 15 borders in the fields of police and judicial criminal, that Member States are in difficulties eliminated.
To conclude, the initiative represents a major step forward in the creation of a judicial area European criminal, albeit partial and limited, but responds to the real needs of a huge volume of European citizens that, so far, state have have when they have been victims of crime outside the territory of their habitual residence.
What we have asked for this group of people?
At the same time, we must ensure a special training professionals who will have to office direct contact with the victims.
The victims must not become people doubly penalised, firstly because of a crime and then through the system.
Also, in this regard it is important that they should be so a a a professional relatives, i.e. to the victims' families, the facts if they so wish, and that they can count on the support needed so that we do not have to know all through the press.
This applies irrespective of crime which was committed.
Never, at Member State level or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
In other cases could be obtained information that is required in a language of the Union which is not itself.
I welcome the positive response by our Parliament before the first text on such an important issue, so that the area of freedom, security and justice that we are building progressively can offer our citizens support in situations that often find it hard to bear.
Vote on request for urgent procedure
(Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
In this way, during the night of 23 to 24 November we agreed with the Council on the main points of a budget that although it is not brilliant is reasonable.
That is why the Commission proposed a revision by EUR 300 million to what was opposed tooth and nail the Council.
But I also know by the discussions that is even more difficult to formulate a Council position negotiable, to obtain a mandate and ensure that the pure national self-interests lead to a decision pan-European more or less reasonable and defensible.
I hope that the work on a recruitment office common, as stated in the modern German, i.e. an authority recruitment of really move forward so that we can overcome together the problems that will be put in the coming years to all the institutions - the Council and the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions, namely the need to staff in the coming years.
The Council refuses to do this review - it seems that now we should have data - and I would like to prevent: to use the flexibility instrument two years in a row, two consecutive years - indeed, in less than 600 months and the first to less than six months of the adoption of the prospects - is vaciando financially the flexibility instrument because prevents replenishment and its possible accumulation, which is scheduled to a height of million.
This amount so important, which responds to the existence of needs very high in 2001, will be financed mainly thanks to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument amounting to EUR 200 million.
Bearing in mind this new element, the Council has voted at second reading a budget increased by 2.5%.
Finally, before you proceed to the final adoption of this budget, I would like to emphasize the efforts of the Council in respect certain rules basic budget, in terms of putting into reserve appropriations, legal basis and classification of expenditure.
And in contrast to Nice, I believe that the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - are very satisfied in general, with the result.
Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of new sick cows of BSE was also necessary to act immediately in the budgetary sector, in particular for the protection of health, consumer protection and also for aid to farmers affected by this situation.
In addition, the Council has set for the framework programme for reconstruction aid in the Western Balkans a multiannual amount, clearly indicative, which is compatible with this financial perspective.
With a great deal of effort, we obtained a couple of million.
I should like to thank Mrs Haug.
Then think that 1% of the budget of the European Union is very well spent.
You said, if I have understood you correctly, that we must not use the reserve, because it was a contravention of the rules.
I believe that we have seen very positive things along with many others I shall not mention now because of the limited time.
Despite that expenditure on agriculture, which represent almost half of the total budget, are increasing, once taken account of the letter of amendment, in more than 5%, the total increase of the budget is only 3.5%.
We see the great danger that in the coming years will increase the confrontation between MEDA projects of countries bordering the Mediterranean and the Balkans in spite of the fact that we all know that is needed there urgently money.
Satisfied at having overcome the difficulties that did so closely the path towards the objective of honouring their commitments in Helsinki with the candidate countries without undo the Union, to allow the Europe of tomorrow that it continues to operate effectively.
Are real, but not go as far as the presidency - which has shown, and I stress, at national level, a great openness - I would have wished.
Provision has been made for a legal basis new to the statute for European political parties and Parliament being granted the status of institutional plaintiff laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
Recent weeks have been achieved three important achievements.
This is the purpose of the declaration adopted at Nice and the deliberations to coordinate at European level the fight against doping.
Between the threats, is, as you all know, the overheating climate.
Furthermore, in Nice, the European Union has established the permanent bodies necessary to define and conduct a common foreign and security policy: a Political and Security Committee, a military committee and a state more Europe.
For this cooperation, for their support and also for your welcome, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the French Presidency them thanks.
In these areas, in fact, the conference has failed due to the intransigence of certain Member States. in this respect, I feel deep disappointment not only for the short-term consequences, but by the spirit of deadlock, closure, incomprehension that emerges from this position.
We must pay heartfelt tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt appreciates that has been fought to the bottom in the name of a presence fairer of the candidate countries and to make less unreasonable, although it is still too high, the threshold of the qualified majority, so that has confirmed the great historic role in Belgium in the European Union.
We now have to carefully examine the text in Parliament.
I would point out, in passing, Mr President-in-Office, that expenditure the taxpayers' .
And I see it as a failure not only in relation to the proclaimed ambition of the European Union to change the institutions to be able to welcome correctly to the new Member States improving the effectiveness of the European Union, but also a failure in connection with another important objective, which perhaps has been mentioned very little, bringing the European Union and the citizens.
The questions are good for us the who asked the impressive human tide that, from the whole of Europe, has convergido in Nice on the eve of the summit.
Firstly, the Fifteen have signed hastily and teargas the Charter of fundamental rights.
(Applause)
My Group is disappointed by this Treaty and concerned for the future that we can all take, so we shall oppose it with all our strength.
Mr President, you have the floor.
Finally, I would say to Mr Hager that the instrument of closer cooperation is, in my opinion, a useful tool to enable Europe to have a dynamic and deliver the way, as I said just now, I believe, Mr.
Mr President, I would like to know whether the competence of the European Parliament on summer-time is a new conquest of Nice.
We demoralised until now because of the complexity of clinical trials, laboratories perhaps find, in the desire expressed both by the Member States and by this House, the value of developing the market of medicinal products for paediatric use, although it does not have the size enough to allow the recovery of investment.
Is it necessary. dealing with the change of summer time, which was established during the oil crisis, in order to save energy, and that was extended until 2001?
Not always the protection of the situation of victims in criminal proceedings is due.
As a result, many passengers and tourists will benefit from this European initiative.
Mr President, I would like to speak only to greet Mr President of the Commission, who is here, and the Presidency of the Council that is looming, and to stress that probably never has been expressed in this Parliament unanimity like this on the results of a summit.
Which works is that, in six months, under the leadership of the French Presidency, has ended, I believe, in spite of everything, your work on six key chapters.
However, my greatest fear is that Britain, France and Germany can now subvert the delicate balance created between states of different sizes and between the institutions over several decades.
It is difficult to understand how the Nice decisions could facilitate the enlargement of the EU.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I can be very brief.
For all these reasons, I can only draw the result that when we vote on the Treaty of Nice, I shall say no.
Mr President, the most important result of Nice was, in spite of everything, which was signed a treaty, so that it is now possible to space to the candidate countries.
The real winners of this conference are Blair and Aznar, Messrs "no" in Europe.
Then, forget Nice, look at what comes after, and let me that you sparking off my hope with the draft convention great progress by Belgium for your Presidency, because it is demonstrated that there is a clean sheet, we need to change of method, must be accelerated history: 2004 is too late, is far too, it is too dangerous.
Instead, the spirit of Nice has been to ask ourselves how we can block, how we can intergubernamentalizar, how can I praise one at home as a defender of national interests instead of working for the European Union really progress.
After Amsterdam and Nice we are a Europe of principados, a Europe of national administrations and not the Europe of political union.
We cannot continue to tackle the lack of decision-making by qualified majority on the essential issues.
It is true - parafrasearé Mr Bayrou - I am that this seat since this morning; at the beginning, accompanying the President of the Republic, and later, in a personal capacity, and llueven criticisms, which, in my view, are moderate, friendly, but which, however, have yet to be criticism.
In fact, we must not forget that this is the first time since 1957 that is reformed, revising the model.
We are in systems of the powers and cannot be confused.
Thank you very much, Minister.
But nor has been incorporated into the Treaties and there has been a reference to the Charter in Article 2 (6) of the Treaty on European Union.
Finally, there are some positive aspects: the new version of Article 7 of the Treaty, the article on political parties and their status; the right of this Parliament to make to the other institutions before the Court of Justice: this is also an important factor of political control; the new formula for the European Commission, to include the so-called "lex Prodi" in the Treaty, to strengthen the President and the new composition of the Commission: reasonable compromise that I accept and will work with the time; and, as pointed out by my colleague Mr Tsatsos, is the way forward in the future.
Mr President, we have already made a rigorous evaluation of what happened in Nice, but it should be remembered that the Nice Summit began with an agenda very limited.
Let us look at things: has not been included in the work of the Treaty the Charter, not even a comment.
We want to demonstrate to the Heads of Government that we know do better.
Despite the blows of chest that the French Government has given this morning, the IGC frankly not, either.
Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French presidency during this debate, because it is not present. understand that President Chirac, Mr.
Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that the Intergovernmental Conference has been outdated.
2001 budget (Continuation)
However, this does not mean that we could not have done something more and better. I would divide the two areas.
This maxim obliges the Commission to set priorities within a limited budget, as must make any authority.
With the vote following this debate ends the long and complex process of adoption of the budget of the European Union for 2001.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis resorting to Article 272; there have been the Financial Perspective, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
Let me just say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have not been footballs without this team and intends to continue playing until we get the appropriate outcome.
We do not want in the resolution Colom is already a revised proposal for next year, because we want to wait for the assessment of the World Bank, but we share your criticism that this way of resolving the financial insufficiency in category 4 distorts the multiannual character of the major external objectives of the Union and the actual definition of the financial perspective.
In order to do this, we must set priorities.
Only then will be devoted correct and properly the money that our fellow citizens are at our disposal.
If we estimate the supplementary budget expected then it will be almost 8% while in all the other areas - whether the training policy, internal policy, including research, foreign policy, administration, pre-accession aid to experience - in total only a growth rate of 1.1%.
And as cooperation is very positive, in the next supplementary budget, back in January, we will have the opportunity to proseguirla.
We also also also relations not yet regulated between Russia and the Baltic States.
We are following with great interest the developments in society and politics internal Russian.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy towards Russia represents the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
Even if President Putin assure us democratic development in his country, he is not automatically a guarantor of a stable and democratic Russia. the democratic order is not yet a reality experienced in Russia.
We should not be insidiosos on our part, but that we must build the Europe of economic cooperation.
With regard to the Caucasus, Mr Van Orden is absolutely right.
Anyone looking to Russia from outside and receive isolated impressions of the country and Russian partners is in danger of declare selectively this as the reality of the country which fits in their image of Russia.
In the political field, the common strategy towards Russia intend to enter a permanent dialogue on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism.
I would like to stress the seriousness that Russia is a political union with Belarus.
Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
In this respect, at the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as Parliament will know, launched a wide-ranging dialogue on energy.
I very much hope to visit Kaliningrad personally in the first part of next year and not just because Immanuel Kant happened throughout their lives in that city.
I congratulate the honourable Member once again on his excellent report on a very important issue, which in the coming years we will refer again and again, I am sure, in this Parliament.
You puts me in a very difficult position.
Mr President, I would like to say that this debate is very necessary since the BSE crisis has an enormous impact on feedingstuffs, on the cultivation and import of feedingstuffs.
The Council has expressed its concern in many meetings with Russia, at all levels, in particular to make it think again to make excessive use of force and avoid a possible extension of the conflict, to proceed independent inquiries and to the violations of human rights, to support the group of the OSCE assistance in carrying out its duty and, finally, to ensure that the transport of humanitarian aid.
Mr President, on a point of order, it is customary in this House that the questions that cannot be respond orally way of respond later in writing.
(Interruption from Mr Posselt)
This directive is 1992.
In this respect we must work.
These groups are obviously left on the sidelines of this new proposal.
- (FR) the Presidency and several Member States have already received correspondence committee of the European sugar manufacturers concerning the Commission' s proposal, which will be taken into account in its deliberations.
Question No 6 by (H-0886/00):
Firstly, I must say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not responded still to the question by Mr Korakas.
We now need to establish the authority and I believe that the authorities are European European European and that we must go ahead.
More specifically, has met the representative of the presidency, in this case the French ambassador in Algeria, with Mr.
We welcome the provisions proposed in this regard by the preparatory committee and decided by the General Assembly regarding the way accreditation of non-governmental organisations, the preparatory process and the special session in September 2001.
Cooperation contains a number of references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
As underlined the Council to the honourable Member in her earlier answer, the process of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters will best protect the rights of the people.
I would like to push him a little more.
In particular, guarantees the political control and strategic direction a military operation of crisis management.
I should simply like to remind you that the system of the Treaty establishing a difference in treatment between the taxes and excise duties, in which harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market - Article 93 - and the approximation, provided for in Article 94, of the legislation that impact directly on the establishment and the functioning of the common market, including those relating to the direct taxation.
We see few words in these three sectors.
If there is still a model of behaviour that in cases of doubt all fighting, all this could set off by the winds the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe which is based on regional cooperation.
In the final analysis, we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, also a cooperation on both sides.
Mr President, our group supports the work done by Mr Baltas in connection with the report on the viability of negotiation of the stabilisation and association agreements with the Republic of Croatia.
Mr President, over the years in which I was President of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to accompany many Croats in its efforts towards freedom and prosperity which they, like other peoples of our continent, identifying with their integration into the European institutions.
On the basis of the results obtained by Croatia this year, I have to say that I am confident that we will be able to achieve a rapid pace.
This is, of course, our criterion and the speed with which we have brought our policy towards Croatia in recent months confirms that.
We have a duty to Croatia to give his government and its people all kinds of aid in the coming years and we very much appreciate your wise advice to ensure that we continue to this path.
It is incomprehensible in this connection that the Laskar Jihad had the opportunity to go to the Moluccas this spring with thousands of supporters to exacerbate again the conflict.
In Timor, militias blocking the return of refugees and persons providing aid are asediadas.
On behalf of the Committee on Industry, I will confine myself to three points.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen for the excellent work she has done.
It is not the only country in which this is happening.
The continuing violence in the Moluccas, in Aceh in Irian Jaya causes a great deal of pain to the population.
Tomorrow, we welcome here the ceremony of the award of the Sakharov Prize.
According to the most recent reports arrivals of the Indonesian archipelago is urgently needed, while the question of whether the situation does not seem even more serious, yes, more precarious, for the President Wahid and serves the enemies which the rapporteur analyses.
If we want to help Indonesia, must now act with money and facts and not just words.
I believe that the report is extremely valuable to shed light on what has been happening.
It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
Protection of the Communities' financial interests
We must finally remove the obstacles to its independent activity, especially in the recruitment of staff and its structure.
That is why the Commission must finally fulfil through a process internal reforms your announcement that will not tolerate fraud and that each of them will be pursued consistently.
I believe that this must be exactly the consequence also of Nice.
We would like to see Member States open up negotiations have a uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a public prosecutor federal community.
I would also like to know why was delayed until yesterday, after the Danish referendum on the euro, the publication of the Commission document on this issue.
I have tabled an amendment to mention the names of these countries, because it is high time to do so and shame.
I am sure that OLAF has an interest in shaping so transparent selection tables senior managers.
However, we in the European Parliament must be careful not to see the beam in our eye for being so focused in seeing the mote in its alien: that of the Commission.
We are trying to put out a fire and suffocate ourselves with the smoke.
And nobody can understand, I either.
With a view to achieving fully that purpose, I would like to highlight four questions which I consider to be fundamental in the work of the authority of budgetary control.
The Treaty is a problem for Parliament itself.
Commissioner, it is worrying that we should explicitly to draw the attention of the Commission on respect for the rights of Members as guardian of the Treaties.
Relate to a number of guidelines for the action that the Committee on Budgetary control can continue when find problems in different areas, including the recommended to the Committee on Budgets that freeze or reduce the amount of the appropriations intended for the items in question in the budget for the following year; not authorise transfers of appropriations involving the increase in appropriations affected for certain period until they have completed internal investigations additional; to ask the President of the Commission to demand the resignation of any Commissioner affected by the serious problems: discovered something like a cesárea of the EU.
The report demands that are made detailed inventories of operational activities, a strict monitoring of budget lines and irregularities as well as an internal assessment of the results by the Commission.
Commissioner, the starting point for the transmission of information to the European Parliament is the EC Treaty and not the interinstitutional agreement.
But the result of this common position would, if not amended, which in the end not only would not have the same weapons on America but even within Europe.
I do not know why it should not be achieved in the present case, as has been achieved for all the other directives, ultimately arrive at a compromise.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that, stormy way to overcome some of the difficulties that exist.
The first amendment relates to Article 4, stating what has to be the authority responsible for monitoring the supply.
We now have a proposal which would cause difficulties, pursuit of court more favourable possible disputes at a delicate moment of an agreement business.
In the UK the regulation of takeover bids through the voluntary code of practice administered by the group responsible for takeover bids has produced very good results: a good example here a pragmatic approach an extremely complex issue in which legislation would be less appropriate.
But, more than that, it is better that we can manage the Lisbon Programme of creating a competitive European economy and dynamic.
In the European Parliament what we must do is to regulate in a way minimum at European level the major areas which cause tension on the right of acquisitions, for example, presidency towards shareholders, major shareholders against small companies or against capital market.
Some amendments proposed by Parliament further improve the text of the Council' s common position. as a result, their points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and are to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
After all, it is not proven in any way that the proposed definition price of better than any other, since different definitions used at the moment in the Member States work all very well.
The debate is closed.
Furthermore, it acknowledges the artist a right of information to be aware of their rights within a period of up to three years before traders professional cultural objects, what is reasonable, because they have to wear the accounting purchases and sales.
Consequently here, the legislator, Austrian and not attack the European legislator that only creates framework conditions positive for artists and auction houses.
In addition, the issue at hand, the need for a common position is all the greater because only a common position will enable the European Union influence at international level so that it can defend the interests of authors at global level.
I trust in the wisdom and wisdom of this House.
In Germany, for example, of the 7,000 artists who transferred their rights in 1998 only 274 actually obtained any money for it and 40% of droit de suite was intended to cover the costs for collecting the sum.
In short, it is not necessary harmonisation of this kind in this sector.
Had already been rejected at first reading a similar amendment.
Have thought that the translations could continue despite this timetable rather tight and difficult.
However, we have reached the point where, unfortunately, we can no longer postpone this any further.
Our committee proposes that it be brought forward a year.
This Parliament is, of course, in favour of these values and will continue to defend them.
Technology and the development of the markets will cause the change in any case.
There is no legal basis for exclude competition in such cases.
A reduction of universal services - the very essence of the postal service sector - up to 50 grammes would seriously undermine the ability of the servers national postal to provide a universal service at an affordable rate for all irrespective of where they live.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British Post Office.
We have turned the safety net for users of postal services in a hamaca where it tumban big business post to continue with what they have always done.
I am very pleased that this notion of special services intended to put new technologies outside the scope of universal service. is move on to the reserved sector of the weight limit of 50 grs. proposed to 150 grs.
We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Commissioner, and we will not tolerate that there is such a situation.
For this reason, the European Commission has not proposed the total liberalisation of postal services in the second phase.
This is something that I wish the other European countries.
In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein cast in view recently to the French its position anti-liberal, or at least that appeared in the holder of a newspaper.
In this respect, I could say something that Spain has created this fund and has been the same, and that to talk about the random legal bases shows that the substance of the virtual criteria in terms of its composition and guarantees discretionary its implementation.
We are voting tomorrow, and I hope that in favour of the amendment by Mr Atkins or by Mr Sterckx because otherwise I shall be forced to vote against this report.
Royal Mail is in competition and distributed me letters in Malmö, Sweden.
Madam President, Commissioner, what has taught us the debate, or rather the controversy sparked by Commissioner Bolkestein in their quest for a liberalisation of postal services in the absence of any assessment of the first phase and violated rules laid down by this directive? that using progressive terms and that we value, such as modernisation, liberalisation, accompanying of technological development, is a regression of social quality of a country.
The protection provided for universal services through a compensation fund which would use private profits for public services cannot be permanent.
These limits and delays have contributed to a debate in which it is often confuse the ends with the instruments.
Madam President, in dealing with this issue we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
Madam President, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur Mr Ferber because, of course, has done a complicated work, difficult, where he had to try to find a balance between proposals, positions and points of departure and arrival completely different.
I fear that the effect will be that the current monopoly can strengthen further its position at the taxpayers' expense and to rejoin the standard for the new applicant.
I am also pleased to see that our Liberal friends of the continent are an example to the British Liberal.
I certainly accept that the concept of liberalisation per se has nothing wrong and which can be beneficial for consumers.
Justified, as it is included in the logic of the founding Treaties of the European Union, which place the completion of the internal market for the free movement of goods and services in an environment of competition.
Universal service is the cornerstone of Community policy in this area and everything we do is designed to create the right conditions for improvement.
Special services are another important areas in which must be promoted innovation and modernisation.
He said that the opening up to competition of almost all of the postal market seems inevitable before the end of the decade.
I fully agree that they exist cast-iron guarantees of whenever that the universal service obligations.
That is why I cannot remain silent and not will remain silent while the future of the sector is threatened by the inability of properly overcome the challenges us that all that in Lisbon.
Thank you very much, Mr Simpson.
I would like to remind you that this common organisation of the markets has as its main objective guaranteed access to the Community market for their products.
It is absolutely necessary to find, over and above the tariff preference EUR 300, a means to enable them to effective access to the quota C and evaluate so that followed the impact of the system on these producers.
For example, we cannot fail to express our concern about the banana production in certain ACP countries, in the small producer countries of the West Indies and in some countries of the West Africa which have been traditional suppliers of the banana market with whom we have commitments that we should not forget.
I therefore ask that this report is supported in its entirety by the Members of this House, as it was in the Committee on Agriculture.
While the United States first condemn periods of historical reference, and now defend their own periods of historical reference.
There are powerful interests, especially those of the Americans, which are not growers direct bananas, but which have invested capital American commercial enterprises.
Sometimes seems as if the Commission, in the proposals deregulation in trade and agricultural production at international level, outside even further than the Cairns Group.
It is a pity that the Commission and the Council persist in a solution that can seriously compromising this production, particularly after 2006.
The successive opinions of the WTO does not say that we cannot give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers.
Thus, the transitional period should be almost fifteen years and never less than ten and compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of production in the outermost regions, which means that they should be included aid undertakings marketing bananas there produced.
I hope that today will listen to our arguments, because this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, albeit EUR 300, may prove to be rather pointless at the facts as ACP producers will be laminados by the so-called "system in order of arrival." 
VOTE
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
The Commission rejects the remaining amendments.
Before the vote:
(Parliament adopted the oral amendment)
Report (A5-0376/2000) by Mrs Morgan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary control, on the reform of the procedures and institutions on budgetary control (2000/2008(INI))
The majority of smokers are not familiar with all the risks or bear all the costs of their choice.
During the 35 years because of my long parliamentary life I have always adhered to this rule.
I fear that their hopes will be in vain.
This is our last ditch attempt to put on packets labels and images which reflect the real cost of tobacco consumption.
Lehne report (A5-0368/2000)
I believe that this trial is still correct and important, and I therefore voted against the report in its entirety.
Quite rightly, the Committee on Legal Affairs insists on refuse to a ceiling and a minimum percentage of less than 7%.
By voting against this directive, my group wishes to table a warning policy for which we in Europe do not raise standards unnecessary.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin decades, how can we grant a minimum trust Mr Putin, executioner of the Chechen people, godfather of the various mafias, which is committed to settle any kind of opposition, civil society (Unions, political parties), to strengthen his personal power?
True that Indonesia not deserves this intensification of relations, because in recent years the rulers of that country have not been distinguished precisely or by a great democracy or by large merits; however, we must concern ourselves with the Indonesian citizens and for this reason, I welcome the intensification of relations and such aid.
The unit should only concern itself with crimes committed by Community employees.
The Theato report on the fight against fraud may find that the European Central Bank, no doubt to prove its best famous independence, has not seen fit to support the agreement on the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
That concludes voting time.
Or we belong to a club or not belong, and it is particularly important that we recognise this principle.
Ladies and gentlemen, not help us to change of name.
The tariff only system, however, is an important element, which guarantees the balance of the Commission' s proposal and forms an important basis in order to achieve some progress in the Council.
National and regional programmes of promotion of rural development also include support measures for the marketing of these bananas.
Europe and the United States are working in close cooperation in defence of the values we share.
We hope that it is going to talk about a new future WTO round, as well as on the consequences for this round the wide range of new initiatives bilateral trade are being discussed by the American hemisphere.
As you rightly said, transatlantic relations have intensified dramatically in the last ten years, above all, it is true, by the United States, thanks to President Clinton, but I believe that history will note that these new relations has also contributed Europe, which has played a key role in its development, through the 1990 transatlantic declaration and through the new transatlantic agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
In short, it will be important to achieve a change of direction and draw up a genuine transatlantic agenda for the year 2001.
In conclusion, I refer to the Dominican Republic, which says that was supposed to the WTO should become an impartial referee of common rules, in which countries could learn to act according to the rules.
Secondly, although we cannot welcome the decline of the communist sham, the collapse of the Soviet Union was one superpower, the United States of America.
I know that the Commissioner has a good dialogue and very constructive to Parliament and to the committees which have some connection with these issues.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
These objectives, the primary and secondary, will be the litmus test with those who have to judge the specific proposals put forward by the Commission.
We know that a solution - installation in one country with the possibility of providing services throughout the Union - could enable an avalanche in those countries with lower taxation.
Thus, in 1992 we achieved an agreement, then considered minimum harmonisation, according to which the normal rate of VAT could not be less than 15% and the Member States had the power to implement one or more rates not less than 5%, in this case with derogations laid down.
We have asked the European Commission to ensure that there are no distortions of the market and that this report on the results to the Council and Parliament.
In short, the aim of this proposal is correct, but the method is unreasonable and if we really want to promote the e-economy in Europe, a signal would be appropriate to set a zero rate of VAT for our companies operating through the network instead try to impose our problems to others.
In order to meet the requirements of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, we will have to make every effort to restrict it.
The only case in which so far not been collects no tax is the benefits carried out in the European Union from a third country.
Positive discrimination air transport must stop.
Companies from other countries, outside the Community, do not pay taxes.
The CDs are not so archaic and it would be necessary to impose a tax, while the programmes circulating on the Internet would fall outside of the imposition of a rate.
However, the solution proposed is intended to be technically unworkable and to create restrictions to the promotion of transactions on the Internet in the Union, precisely when all its promise expansion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing grip and capacity for collection.
We should be looking for ways to promote electronic commerce and not devise new forms of gravarlo.
Liberals tell us that we need less State as possible.
The Primarolo group has produced a simple rules which must be applied.
As objection, the group that I represent in this House believes that we should address the fact that, while the newspapers usually enjoy of reduced rates of VAT, this reduction is not apply to the newspapers electronically.
The tax on kerosene can only be introduced, therefore, by means of an international consensus which will enable us to guarantee equality of competition.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthens one of the key arguments I made in my report on behalf of the Committee on Transport and which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that given that certainly is politically difficult to reach an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we should seek alternatives tools to achieve the same effect, including a rate for emissions.
In fact, the industry provides 100% of its infrastructure costs through charges air traffic control and airport, which in 1998 were raised to a total of USD 4,000 million; unlike other modes of transport, such as rail and road, which are still heavily subsidised.
The current situation is not favourable.
In this context it has to be said, unfortunately, that emissions from air traffic are a problem which, although not in percentage terms is too large, is increasing very and therefore not,.
The plan will be detrimental to the development of SMEs, both inside and outside the Union, especially given the proposal to reduce the exemption threshold level to at the turnover of EUR 40,000 per year.
If we are too greedy when addressing the issue before us, we will really putting at risk the future of the important electronic commerce in Europe.
The starting point for providers outside the Community supply to customers within the Community should only be registered in a place cannot bring about a shift in tax revenue between Member States.
Bearing in mind that the debate within the Council still continues and the Commission' s desire to settle properly the issue of VAT and electronic commerce in the short term, I think that the best thing at the moment is not formally accept Parliament' s proposals for amendments, but making them a reality as far as possible through negotiations within the Council.
For this reason, I cannot accept the proposed amendments.
Thank you, Commissioner, for all dossiers to those who referred this week.
For its part, only three months after the accident, the Commission took their responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures that the European Parliament fully endorsed on 30 November.
In fact, with more than fifteen directives or regulations in force, there is an urgent need to harmonise practices and get a better grip on the application of Community rules, in order to avoid significant differences and unacceptable in the field of maritime safety that may occur within the Union.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the area of maritime safety.
I would like to remind you that in air safety compensation which apply at European level and in the field American not amount to the same amounts to those applied in other countries.
Secondly, I would say to the honourable Member that anyone could have the ability to confiscate or freeze funds of a specific company to compensate injury or other, it is the French courts, which could establish responsibilities beyond the planned according to the criteria objectives set by the current international regulations on pollution by hydrocarbons.
The Commission considers that these provisions are going in the right direction towards the establishment of charging systems fairer, in addition to that which use more rational and effective road network.
As a result of the criticisms made, particularly in Ireland and France, was changed so far and now the Minister of Finance British has taken a turn for the different: now is presented as a rate by right of use for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
I am committed to ensure that the food offered to consumers, regardless of whether they come from inside or outside the European Union, meet the highest standards.
I naturally understand the concern of the honourable Member.
I am sorry to say, Commissioner, that your reply I am not interested.
The question raised by the honourable Member is important.
In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the indigenous population population population instigate violence against it and even pay the Nigerian soldiers to shoot against the demonstrators in the naval base Warri.
Mr President, in his report adopted on 15 November, the Commission concluded that aid to the exploitation under Regulation 1540/98 have not led to solve the problem of policies prices of
I believe that the whole intentions of reassuring, but the reality is that in the meantime our shipyards are closing down.
Question No 38 by (H-0868/00):
Commissioner, I understand who does not wish to amend its decision in spite of the fact that ten Member States are opposed to this tariff.
This initiative is based on a Council regulation amending the Regulation, which defines the EGP.
I represent some producers and that is why I am very worried.
We are working on this in committee, we have not taken up this week to be Poul Nielson absent for a trip to the Balkans.
We are working on the safeguard clause and if Mr Clegg needs arguments to talk with its beet producers, have at its disposal.
I would like to thank Mr Liikanen' s very positive and brilliant answer.
I shall deal with this matter with my services once we know the budgetary resources available for next year.
At the moment, the efforts of my services and the personal mine focus on limiting the gap between the parties and the future court.
In the same way as the courts in Düsseldorf, Munich and other cities in Germany have specialised in patent law, and there are also courts specialising in London, a Community court which meets and judged cases relating to Community patents should be very specialised.
To prevent this situation interim acquires a permanent, on 13 July 1999, on 13 July last year, the Commission pointed out in a letter to the Member States concerned their obligation to appoint courts to Community trade marks.
As you know the honourable its Parliamentary Assembly, the presentation of a complaint does not concern itself to the progress of the project.
Question No 47 by (H-0877/00):
This means that the Commission alone will make use of the legal measures of the available as stated in the regulation.
The question is where must address these students to understand that when this still cycle of studies and I are to culminate in Britain are entitled to achieve results.
King could be elected for a limited period between the Finnish Members of Parliament more praiseworthy.
It could also be seen as an issue which affects competition, because it can continue without selling taxes in the southern part of the Baltic, en route between Stockholm and Helsinki, that will not be possible in the route between Umeå and Vaasa.
What we must do is to correct this situation through the promotion of multilingual content, because they are a prerequisite for the success of the content industry in Europe.
The problem which concerns me most is that small businesses do not always have sufficient guarantees and record a a A to offer the investor.
To bring to fruition the development of the ambitious European programme e-Contenidos we need to simplify and consolidate from the point of view of safety procedures involved.
That is why the objective of the public support measures for the promotion of the content industry of the EU must also be the achievement of a high level of culture and the diversification of the same.
On the other hand, are communication networks, which need content to fill endlessly its virtual area, and consider the obvious subordination of content, their purchase, its use without special attention to the rules of production.
Mr President, I very much welcome the programme on digital content in Europe and I would like to highlight two points.
That is why I support the amendments calling for the adoption of specific actions in the field of new technologies.
First, on the social and cultural function of digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament emphasis on the social and cultural dimension of digital content.
Assessment and management of environmental noise
Indeed, I am grateful for the support that the Christian Democrats and, incidentally, also part of the Liberal Group, have given to this particular amendment to reduce aircraft noise.
This year alone, six years later the dates mentioned above, and under strong pressure from the French Government, the Commission has presented a proposal to establish indicators harmonised noise.
This proposal is, in fact, quite moderate, bearing in mind that the Scandinavian countries already have stricter rules than those proposed for the year 2012.
Orly Schiphol, Barcelona and other airports already comply with strict measures.
Another important point which we propose to incorporate and that it will be essential in the context of the problem of aircraft noise is the definition of noise other indicators of in addition to those that the rapporteur has pointed out.
Due to a lack of common rules in the European Union, we have seen situations glaring distortion of competition between airports and a lack of fairness between the citizens of the various Member States.
That is why the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange seem to me to be very important.
Mr President, first of all, I must say that I welcome this report.
This was in fact the purpose of amendment No 36, although I believe that the idea has not yet been developed in depth.
We should look at this aspect and then adopt in both areas a combined approach, setting out on the one hand limit values for the various sources of emissions and noise, on the other hand, quality standards for emissions.
We need more time and I regret that we have not had, although in general terms, I support the framework directive.
Once the Member States have given comparable information, the Commission will examine the issue of introducing limit values and other Community measures to reduce the number of people who are affected by noise, and will submit a report to the Council and Parliament.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
These are the three criteria.
Thank you very much, Mr Bouwman, I sympathise with you, because, if you throat as a estropajo, I have as a bayeta, as we say in the north of the Rhine; the fact is that it appears that the flu is hanging over here.
If the problems of diet are chronic increases, moreover, the risk of contracting cancer.
Then, it also transpired that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
Tomorrow we have in the programme another stage, when the next move will be to our colleague Marit Paulsen, of the Liberal Group, who will have the opportunity to qualified even more the directive before us.
The Member States and the Commission now have a better instrument to ensure the correct implementation of Community legislation on animal feed and, in the event of emergencies arise in third countries, to take measures without delay.
We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and until now, these issues have been in embryonic stage as regards the cities.
The planning process must be applied fairly and innovative.
The multiannual programme 2000-2004 to sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for this purpose, as well as the implementation of Agenda 21 is an excellent way of coordination and development actions.
To try to change the climate threat we need to reduce transport and to abandon fossil fuels at local level.
There have been many those who have suggested that the budget is too small.
The intention is that the main partners in this context are the Commission and networks of local authorities, which have the legal responsibility to develop and implement policies of sustainable development in the urban environment.
The Court of justice of the European Communities and even the bodies of conflict resolution WTO consider that sometimes the precautionary principle applies environmental and public health, and sometimes even against Europeans, as shown by the unfinished business of the cheeses drawn up with fresh milk.
The aim must not be limiting or compensation of damage, but the primary goal must be to prevent damage to health or the assets of persons.
Already in 1996, the European Parliament came out in favour of a ban on the use of animal meal throughout the European Union, in accordance with the precautionary principle; although only for that.
There has never been and never will be, a certainty absolute scientific on the new substances or on new products.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is essential to the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation
And, finally, that public health and the environment must take precedence over other considerations, particularly economic.
An essential condition for the application of the precautionary principle is that the concern about the possible harmful effects will provide a scientific basis.
Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American, Professor George Carlo, whom the food and Drugs administration has entrusted in the last seven years a study on the effects of radiation on human health, revealed that there is a risk that the use of mobile phones strengthens the emergence of brain tumours, Alzheimer' s disease and injuries in the skin.
Mr President, the environment and public health are like a complicated machine with a lot of functions we monitor and check to intervene and that this should not be obstructed.
The application of this principle must at all costs avoid stifle innovation and economic activity, generate pusillanimity and industrial paralysis, become a means to discourage competition.
As you will have noted Parliament, the Commission' s position is in line with most of the issues you raise in your motion for a resolution.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 noon.
Article 2 enshrines the right to life, and each time in Spain terrorism kills one person, the whole Union is affected in what is one of its most essential principles.
We do not want to replace the institutions legitimately established, but urgirlas to protect our rights and our freedoms without concessions to terror.
VOTE
Furthermore, recalled the comments of the Council on the classification of budget lines on the draft retirement from the Commission and on the administrative costs of the fisheries agreements.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
In other words, it is no longer present.
The 23,428 licences obtained will seem few, but on the other hand will be happy to be given area so that they can grow.
The consequence of that abolition, which began to be applied in the middle of last year, was, as we had planned, an interruption dramatic the pace of approval of projects and implementation of payments, with what the annual implementation of authorisations for this Fund at the end of June 2000, was reduced by one percentage point.
The text is carte blanche ideal for a closure in practice the General Secretariat of the European Parliament in Luxembourg.
Before my trip, they said to me: it is Christmas, and in Bergamo we welcome Christmas and St Lucia. is Mr.
In addition, we object to the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for information for sale.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the García-Margallo y Marfil report on taxation of electronic commerce.
Mr President, I will see to enmendarme before the year 2004 with some explanation of vote in favour of Malta.
However, I say this with some solemnity: it is the best we can accept a Europe, in my opinion, it too liberal!
The existence of a deadline incentivaría the postal sector to develop and to modernise their services, while would facilitate the planning and investment in the markets.
Will continue to exert pressure. consolidate its position with the money earned with the distribution of shipments of more than 150 grammes.
The liberalisation of postal services, as was proposed by the Commission, it is not appropriate nor consistent, which is why I voted in favour of the report and all the amendments tabled expressing the same direction.
De Roo report (A5-0378/2000)
We also have reservations about Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, still not convinced that are compatible with the WTO.
The Commission' s proposal is unacceptable as it stands, it represents a capitulation to the American dictatorship, and that this capitulation is unworthy of our European project and the environmental and social model which we say we want to build.
This contravenes the respect for national identity as provided for in Article 3 (6) of the Treaty on European Union.
I note that linguistic minorities, rather than being engullidas by globalisation of the Internet, have in finding this means a new opening cultural and economic.
Mr President, in the absence of other results, the negotiations that took place in Nice will have made clear the intentions of the protagonists of the European Union.
In this respect the tone of the joint resolution is too simplistic.
The backwardness of the publication of the written conclusions - which are not yet officially available at the moment, four days later - demonstrates the difficulty of draw up clear decisions taken in confusion.
The only way to avoid dangerous conflicts in the future, is to maintain the traditional concept whereby Europe is based on mutual respect of national communities.
The Nice Summit Sunday ended with an agreement which should lead to a draft treaty.
The resolution on Nice, voted on today, does not reflect this.
Finally, a reference to social policy, for which France had supported in the presentation of your presidency, but that, in the end, was in a hand full of very little, beyond declarations of intent and the titles of documents content of and clearly insufficient to the problems and the enormous dissatisfaction, of which the demonstration of workers in Nice was also important expression.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, everything is as before.
What is striking in the debate on Nice is the impression at the end of the Treaty does not father or mother and child is anyone: the French presidency in desdobló apologise, instead of accepting clearly the results of the IGC and their reasons; the political groups which correspond to the governments of the Member States multiplicaron criticism.
On the contrary, it reduces the influence of national democracies, by restricting the right to veto and to give more power to the European Parliament.
If these consequences could be calculated in my year of birth, in 1944, to be concluded the Agreement Chicago might not have been agreed a rating for fuel and other products aviation.
Given that zero risk does not exist, scientists, or at least politicians must apply the criterion of proportionality, judge the risks uncertain and assume their responsibilities.
But this Parliament also fought for this reduction in resources for the innovative policies were offset using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
We all have a part to play in this important area because, in the market truly global in which we are already, new ideas - with adequate resources, and with a firm support and realistic - will mean that in Europe we can maintain our place at the forefront of technological development in the new industries and in communications technology in particular.
In the previous speech already were harsh words against budgets, and that is that EUR 400 million is really the minimum funding, so in the second part of the exercise we must seize the opportunities for additional funding which offers the flexibility instrument, as has been pointed out in the report.
In my opinion, this will accompany automatically, and not as concludes the report, a reduction of European added value.
As we all know, unemployment in the European Union is concentrated in the territories economically and technologically less developed, particularly in the Objective 1, therefore it is necessary to the innovative actions are not only a simple technological nature, but which are inspired by a desire explicit economic development and employment.
When I come back to my own region, the east of England, and I find that not a single local government has used this money recently, I doubt that we have been everything effective we have to be in the future to welcome these new communities.
Mr President, I would firstly like to Helmut Markov to thank and congratulate him on the presentation constructive, extremely competent and serious' s draft communication on the innovative actions of the ERDF for the period 2000-2006.
Energy efficiency and aspects of environmental policy have not been forgotten in these guidelines. may give rise to innovative actions by way of third issue, which concerns the regional identity and sustainable development.
However, we hope that projects are selected at regional level, as, moreover, is clear to Mr Berend in his speech.
The debate is closed.
That is why we call in this report and in the three amendments which we have added that the Commission redouble its efforts to bring proceedings conciliation before the WTO.
I think the Commissioner should demonstrate to the industry that is doing everything we can in this respect to cope with this threat from outside our industry.
Finally, of course, we hope that, since 18 December - to be examined at the meeting of the group of the 6 OECD agreement "ships" .
However, it looks as if the final goal moves again and again, so that we can never achieve it.
As you all know, the simple handling of this procedure will need more than six months.
For the big corporations, and for their lawyers political demand less state it simply means that the state and its finances must be available exclusively.
But to achieve this, so that the process will consolidate the shipbuilding industry, jobs and reassure families dependent on it, are still necessary aid beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not equal, but of dishonesty and dumping.
The Commission encourages improving the competitiveness of EU yards, but against the massive cuts price of Korean shipyards, the increase in productivity can be achieved is not enough.
The Council emphasised that the support mechanism must not distort competition within the EU.
The presence of nuclear submarine damaged in the waters of Algeciras Bay has become because, unfortunately, in a diplomatic clash between a military power nuclear and colonial and a Member State second-class, according to the latest classification of Nice, which does not require their rights and doblega explanations to children.
When, through the part that medical circulating in the country in which the owner lives - in other words, through the British press - it turned out that the disease was serious, instead of change of heart it changed the rating the centre.
And, of course, we await with interest the reply of the Commission to check whether the objective has been achieved.
Mr President, I would also like to my first express my condolences to the family of councillor murdered and with the Members of the European People' s Party, and rejection of this barbarity fascist of ETA and the groups that are support.
I also believe that it would be appropriate to carry the submarine Tireless to Britain to repair them as soon as possible, as den weather conditions appropriate.
You have asked whether the Commission considers that directive 89/618/Euratom on information to the population in the event of a radiological emergency, and Directive 96/29/Euratom on basic security rules, apply the submarine and what measures have been taken accordingly.
In accordance with the usual procedure for complaints, we cannot do this public response, although we can say in broad outline what he says.
One aspect of the Euratom Treaty is the transport of radioactive waste between Member States, but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and all contaminated waste will be a part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without passing through any Member State of the European Union.
All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the Roca.
However, we see here a Member State which is public opinion in another Member State and do so with any other country in the world, as if, in essence, there were no affectio societatis fifty years after the start of the European company, as if European solidarity had not progressed in the slightest.
It is a fact that at some point the only submarine which operated in British waters was a submarine German.
There is now being discussed but the citizens based on their knowledge or in its intuition, turn your attention to the European institutions.
The lack of expenditure in new military equipment due to cuts in the area of defence of the British Labour government will lead in the future, without doubt, episodes more frequent teams of that we are withdrawing to carry out repairs essential.
Community competence, even if some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of ports for making repair work in submarines, or questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine may be withdrawn for repair elsewhere.
We need to give them even more aid, ask the Community institutions to strengthen financial resources, human and material of ACR.
I ask the Commission to come back to increase this aid and always appoint the UNHCR as coordinating body in all contracts concluded with NGOs.
Therefore, must be able to have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move quite security and sufficient resources to fulfil its mission.
On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which was the ultimate objective in Tampere for the common European asylum system.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to all the work he has done Mrs Ogata for the UNHCR and hope to Mr.
We think it important that we are pushing an amnesty policy in Yugoslavia for this recovery mentioned, but we also think it is very important that we condemn without doubt the resurgence of incursions and terrorist activities at the borders between Serbia, Albania and Kosovo, because it reminds alarmingly what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where there was responsibilities of Western powers.
In paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of our compromise resolution we talk very clear.
Here I also appeal to President Kostunica to clarify what has happened with people like Mr Ukshin Hoti, whose fate we have discussed here several times and whose whereabouts we know nothing.
I also endorse the call to KFOR to disrupt any act of violence in the Presevo Valley.
I welcome the measures already adopted KFOR to tackle the problem and I am calling for moderation to all parties.
B5-0916/2000 by Mr Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the PSE Group;
This clause was agreed in the Palacio currency in March 1990, and I know well because I was privileged to be there in the act of inauguration of President Alwyn, following the referendum on the put an end to the regime of General Pinochet.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution on whose behalf obviously vote.
It is important that the international community exercising their right to democratic vigilance, not as interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, but as political procedure, precautionary and prevention.
The situation in the prisons and the police headquarters, with torture and ill-treatment, is totally unacceptable.
Such treatment is exactly the same as we see in Western Europe and in protests, the Minister Hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a consensus political and social on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
It is a matter of urgency, and that is why we decided to include this item on the agenda.
It procesará on 8 January next. is criticized for having taken part in a meeting opponents of France, which, moreover, he denied.
When militants and responsible for these associations want to meet the day the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of human rights, the police around their homes and those who attends this meeting are attacked on the streets by men dressed in civil.
The second problem is, in fact, only a part of a set of harassment.
My group, like this Parliament, is particularly sensitive to the human rights situation in Tunisia and the rest of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, show a little restraint, please.
The negotiations left very well and I am pleased that these negotiations are gaining speed, which I hope will lead to the conclusion that the honourable Member referred.
Several Members have referred to the situation of the prisoners in Turkey.
B5-0912/2000 by Mr van Hecke, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group;
We could not, in my view, Mr President, Commissioner, retractarnos on this attitude.
In this context was the seizure of power by the military, as always, only helped to make the situation worse.
This attitude fits in well with the continuation of the policy of French imperialism.
The Commission is gravely concerned about the recent violence.
The debate on current issues, urgent and of major importance is closed.
Unfair competition aid to destroy good environments for shipbuilding, the loss of know-how (Know-how) and jobs and may lead to long-term monopoly situations, which will not benefit to world trade.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Therefore, I would like to thank all colleagues for the contribution you have also given in the process of tabling amendments and the technical committee because they have been a few elements extremely valuable to achieve the resolution.
The adoption of the social agenda by the Nice European Council we are particularly pleased, and we hope that the Member States know to take this opportunity to encourage the development and the coordination of social security systems and care for the elderly, and promote other measures, such as, for example, learning throughout life, which guarantee their reintegration into working life.
The promotion of lifelong learning throughout life - something that has already been mentioned by another speaker - is another issue which also support.
Of course, people over 60 or 70 years can still do many things useful, but it is a mistake to do that, in their age, their income dependent on his work.
Already, in its monthly report of July 2000, the European Central Bank emitía warnings very serious in this respect.
As far as I am concerned, the Member States can tackle this problem much better themselves by means of their own legislation.
With its proposals for an active life for the elderly, society is gaining a whole generation.
We must keep the promises on pensions, but pensions must be guaranteed with own resources of these countries, without having to go to a common financial policy of the EU to fulfil its payment.
In the last 100 or 150 years we have experienced the greatest social revolution, which has doubled the life expectancy of people.
Is the purpose of the mathematical extension of life, which medical progress has allowed.
Claimed compensation - the whole of society was therefore affected - older workers left employment, but are not employed to young workers and were abolished many jobs.
The outcome of the family policy and tax should be rather than men and women with family responsibilities can freely decide whether they want to develop a job or not.
My brother and I met him there.
Other initiatives in the field of public health aimed at above all issues relating to health and care of the elderly and the promotion of a healthy ageing.
Mr President, I have accepted Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, that maintains that we need to amend the text and insists on the concept of demographic development in the face of demographic ageing.
It is not a question of double operations advertising or promotion of operators to each sector or public authorities.
Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in principle, was also in favour of the Commission' s proposal.
That is why it is very important to offer compensation and this can be put into practice very properly through promotional measures and advertising.
I believe that in the context of the marketing and sales should be given a place much more central lifelong learning within the training programmes, as new technologies, the management of the promotion, offer entirely new opportunities for a modern logistics.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for her excellent report.
My next point concerns the issue of exports and intervention.
We must not pay for certain products that are not demand, nor to make propaganda.
Everyone has sufficient food, so that if a product promocionamos obviously we do against the consumption of another.
Amendment No 18 and the first part of amendment No 24, which reduce from three to two years the frequency with which will be reviewed the issues and selected products in order to improve the effectiveness of the instrument of promotion.
Jutta Haug like the rapporteur, that is to say, as a man, and Mr Markus Ferber like the rapporteur, that is to say, as a woman.
This shows how with small changes can be made great effect in practice.
This is temporarily our last Friday in Strasbourg, namely that Strasbourg will lose days of the presence of Parliament.
Moreover, I would like to wish festive period and a prosperous, but, above all, wise new century to everyone, but, in particular, to those who believe that it is worth being present this Friday in this House last year' s 2000 in Strasbourg.
