Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
We have to organize ourselves as fifteen in order to be able to receive in good conditions in those countries that are knocking at our door.
In Article 87 must be included in the area of assistance existence purposes, social and cultural caritativos, so that these important institutions can enjoy a lasting protection.
Some argue that it is possible to create an internal market in Europe without agree on basic principles and values.
I wish to welcome the important and substantial intervention of President Prodi.
You know that this is a case of a deliberate decision which occurred in Amsterdam, to distinguish between the two functions well, the High Representative, unlike the Commission not manifested independently, but that mission is to coordinate policies foreign and security policy within the competence of the Member States and in this case we have to make perhaps a broad area the intergovernmental aspect.
The Presidency has asked to trace in Nice the way for the future.
Indeed, we want more and better, but I think in all honesty that this is a good principle.
Consequently, I trust that the European Council in Nice to be associated with this project and decide iniciarlo specifically as project, not as a fait accompli, having adopted naturally reforms we need now.
However, I have also indicated that specifically on the basis of the present can achieve objectives extremely important to the Community method with which we have now, for example, for better action in the Balkans.
Only if we link Russia to the West and the European Union, we will be able to influence its policy and to keep the contact and dialogue with this country.
Motion for a resolution (B5 0767 / 00) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
This is genocide perpetrated and also seeks to remove completely press freedom and the rule of law, whose existence is already precarious.
Precisely in order to respond to the expectations of this pensioners, called Giuseppe Italia and live in Cremona and to which he would sail in the Po, I voted in favour of the Piecyk report on the development and enhancement of sea ports, inland ports and intermodal terminals and.
(DE) The result of the vote in this Parliament will make it impossible to achieve the objective of the directive, an objective and recognised by all the speakers who have spoken and the Commission.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Skinner report, as I said during the debate prior to the vote, because I believe that the risk capital is important.
My colleague in the Group Armonie Bordes pointed out yesterday in an incisive that only a minority has an interest in the transfer of Community money and the contributions of retirement pensions to the risks of entrepreneurs.
Consequently, the Charter will serve mainly to confirm the current practice, even backward-looking, of the Member States, instead of representing a step forward.
Finally, Mr President, we have a Charter of fundamental rights of the European citizen that contains an article, Article 25, entirely devoted to the elderly.
In principle this text may seem anodyne, because it contains basically existing rights. But if it is incorporated in the Treaty with binding, as called for by the European Parliament, with the time would tend to automatically standardisation of national rights in Europe; a disproportionate power would give the Court of Justice; it would promote greater centralisation around the European institutions; it would limit the scope of the decision independently of each nation.
· avoided an overload the burden of regulation of detail, which should be reserved for the provisions of lower status.
I will go to vote for another Charter, taking part in the demonstrations in Biarritz, on 13 and 14 October, and the Nice, on 7 December 2000.
The progress towards accession of the 12 candidate countries.
In my opinion, several Member States have not yet understood the existence of this connection hesitant and the progress of the Intergovernmental Conference can entail difficulties when it comes to carry out enlargement in the time necessary.
We will only be able to implement in practice the lasting nature of all the issues I have mentioned so far if the policy and leader of the candidate countries and in the European Union - and here I agree with you, Commissioner - to make known to the public that the enlargement of the European Union is itself beneficial.
It is about the method enshrined.
Let me mention the second approach according to which the Presidency wishes to make progress during this six-month period of the enlargement process.
What I propose, therefore, is to work in this direction with the idea that we need to examine, with the prospect of the year 2003, what are the candidate countries that could join in that date.
I thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok, on his clarificador and comprehensive report, as well as the other rapporteurs.
In these negotiations is not ningun raises in the case of the "if" but the 'how' and 'cúando ".
But also because we have the prospect of becoming members of the European Union gives them hope in the solidarity of the European peoples and because they are required solid foundations for this political and economic.
Several countries have recorded, as regards the second criterion of economic competitiveness in the internal market, so that substantial progress is close very quickly to compliance with the requirements of membership.
Therefore, we intend to coordination with the programmes of national governments, the European Parliament and the other institutions is as close as possible.
In every country of the expected accession with great concern the opinion that the Commission sends annually on their progress, it will be issued to new will shortly, on 8 November.
We have chosen rightly the principle of differentiation, according to which each candidate country will be judged on its own merits.
This debate represents another opportunity to my political group to emphasize that the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and also of Cyprus and Malta, is the best guarantee of future for all of us in Europe, both in this as in the West.
It is a matter of the utmost importance and, in spite of this, something which is curious, barely has attracted public attention.
The people spent jokes saying that after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, enlargement is still view of five years.
The next opportunity will be natural in connection with the next elections to the European Parliament of 2009, but we strive for the greatest possible number of countries can join as early as the year 2004.
Moreover, are six aspects of fund that we are concerned about the method.
In fact, we are sumidos in its own model of European construction, namely the simultaneous integration of all sectors of activity, beyond the traditions or of the specific characteristics of each other, it transforms again in a trap.
You have the support of the President of the Central Bank Hungarian: "The European Union must give precise signals" If not, Eastern sospechará that Europe is not working seriously on enlargement, something which could end up in a dangerous disappointment about the promises of Brussels - and I quote - the Hungarian spokesman.
But things must be clear: there can be no accession with reductions.
This is an idea that force is also a great idea: we do not enlargements against the opinion, and the best way to make the enlargement with the opinion of its participation in the elections, as the elections are the expression of democracy and the method for the accession of the people in the political system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something briefly on the conditions of the scenario desired here by several parties.
I will be very surprised if not ejerciesen this pressure.
But I have already indicated that all countries are close to the relatively quickly ready for accession.
This means that the liberalisation of trade in the area of agricultural products is already agreed that without Poles have the concern that therefore sink their agriculture.
Efforts have been taken, but, in general, peace and trade have established stronger links between citizens, now more solid with Monetary Union.
What counts must be the outcome of the negotiations.
The only amendment that has been tabled is already covered in my report, but I am delighted that the Green Group wishes to stress the importance of equal treatment for citizens.
This is not only includes a law on public service but also that there are opportunities for young employees of the administration and an appropriate payment.
This applies both to Latvia as member of the European Union.
It has been planned to link the lita the euro in the second half of the year 2001.
Mr President, Commissioner, Poland, the country for which I am rapporteur, is the largest and most important, but, as we know, it is also the most problematic of countries that are preparing to enter the European Union, so that we can hear voices problematic about their possible, the exclusion of the first group of countries which will be included in the first place.
In Poland, to the eastern European countries, the countries that were Communists have too unfulfilled promises.
There is one point that always arises when it comes to the Czech Republic is the problem of the Roma.
Slovakia is not condemned to the second group, and it is logical that wants to join when do Czech Republic.
At the same time, I would like, finally, to make a comment on the internal policy.
Thirdly, with regard to agriculture, whose level of productivity is still lower than that of the European Union, we must ensure that the opening up of the agricultural market for capital necessary for the privatisation of land, the modernisation of farms and marketing structures, as well as for the improvement of incomes.
It looks forward to the time to join the European Union and to NATO.
The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990 and with the current government of the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
I trust that these matters become priorities of the new Parliament to take office in 15 days, and the new government.
But it also point out that the final solution, fair and permanent should fully respect the once the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, which is no more and no less than the current international law, and for the principles governing the European Union.
Malta has also of stable democratic institutions that work.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we want to make our contribution to this debate.
They must also apply to the European Community law is not only a law in the books, but it must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
This transformation raises some tough demands on people in the candidate countries, but at the same time ensuring their future and the future of their children.
We must devote special attention - that I agree with the previous speaker - to the border regions.
In this context, it must be left alone to the Commission.
The candidate countries want to achieve a rapid economic growth, also whether it takes place at the expense of a political nature protection previously established.
We are faced with a traffic of tickets and back of bad habits, many of them linked to health.
Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a strong and united European continent.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional policy, which is competent in the domain of transport and the trans-European networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the various Community policies sectoral in favour of an overall policy on regional planning.
But first I would like to make the observation that the transport infrastructure will be of central importance to the success of enlargement.
Mr President, I join in the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is now the largest task facing the EU.
It has exercised great pressure on social values traditional in Central and Eastern Europe.
The PPE Group does not want to usurp the responsibilities of the candidates for the pace of accession, because we cannot give a date for this.
The second point is the mention the dates.
There are also another reason?
Thirdly, the acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the various countries and for the EU as a whole - it has shown Denmark depend to a large extent, to reduce the social and democratic deficits in European policy.
The populism is epíteto infamante that the technocrats attributed to the will of the people when it is expressed in a sense it suits them.
Ladies and gentlemen, have a pause to eat rest. and will continue at 9 p.m.
In a more long-term perspective, will have a single currency in the whole continent.
In these issues are focused internal battles in each of the countries.
Invite you to fight for a different Europe, of all people, who has fought for all such inhumane, in which the people are masters of their own fate, develop relations of peace, freedom, of fraternity, of mutual collaboration beneficial.
I publicly praised the work of these organisations and, in particular, the challenge of Romanian appeal which is based in Birmingham and other organisations Irish supported by many people, including Daniel o donnell artist varieties, the Irish, who promised a million pounds and recaudó that amount in Ireland and other parts of the world.
The Nice Summit must provide above all clarity on whether and how the EU is to act on their part to be in a position to extend it in depth and in time.
The Poles are asking: we are paid when we adhiramos or will we be second-class countries?
I am sure that, with goodwill and with the help of the European Union, it will be possible to find a solution to enable the two communities to live in harmony and prosper as they have done for centuries.
But we have also dealt with the issue of minorities, because the issue of the integration of these linguistic minorities, including the integration, is also of importance in these countries.
The requirement for membership is, essentially, the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
We are talking about the benefits of enlargement, and this is one of the areas where Lithuania shows us the way.
Just imagine if we were all as them!
Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to thank and congratulate Mr Brok and the other rapporteurs, but, first of all, I should like to confine myself to Slovakia, more specifically, to the political situation of minorities.
I urge you to determine in Nice a date when providing up to conclude the negotiations with the candidate countries have made more progress without mentioning names.
The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in its progress for the entry into the European Union and, of course, making the planning of that aid is more decentralised.
The dialogue between the social partners and other groups in the civil society, the government and Parliament plays an important role in this regard and, as we have seen, also positive.
We are running out precisely with the division of Europe into two, and not by creating a new division.
All this is contained in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and I congratulate him warmly on behalf of our group for this report.
From this point of view, I believe that the issue of Cyprus, which is the most will determine the capability of Europe to see their characteristics policies.
Live near the Baltic, whose situation which concerns us all.
The policy remains the same.
That is why I was very nice to listen to Mr Hänsch, who spoke on behalf of the PSE Group, when wanted the Commission to give an opinion on the real consequences of enlargement, and also on the economic impact that arise in the event of enlargement cannot be carried out.
However, I share the opinion of our rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, that without transitional periods cannot work in the interests of both sides, precisely as an MEP of a border region that, like the Mrs Schierhuber, has a farm agricultural near the Czech border, it is very important for me that arise common economic areas more aproximadas without problems and which lead to positive results on both sides.
I would like to highlight three aspects as a Social Democrat.
The EEA, which are included in the issues of the first pillar, will allow access to the economies of the candidate countries to the internal market and will give young people to science and the right to participate in exchange programmes, but, instead, not forced the EU to extend even his regime of agricultural subsidies to these countries in this way, the EEA agreement would give a positive impetus, primarily, to the economies of the candidate countries - very deprived of growth in order to be able to join their societies, but also to national economies of the EU, it is estimated that, by means of economic growth, could cover even two-thirds of the total costs of enlargement, and perhaps even more so if we went to the model of the EEA.
Secondly, we say no to the idea of big bang, namely to accept a large group of candidate countries simultaneously, as opondría to the principle that the countries are accepted on its own merits.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003, the European Union for the enlargement process in the direction of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission Prodi.
In this context, I would like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council and point out that recently the Council responds with a significant delay in written questions from Members.
It is worrying that this is happening in a country that is going to join the European Union.
I ask for referral back to committee in its preparation.
Mr President, today we will discuss and perhaps we will vote on three reports which deal with this matter, two of whom are mine.
All those involved in the food chain would be winners.
The safe food have a cost throughout the chain.
We must therefore support to Mrs Paulsen and the Commission, and to adopt the principle of tackled, to give security to the animal feed and to protect the truth to European consumers.
The 1999 directive is a text well thought out and can already exhibir some success, because we have managed to reduce a demonstrable burdens.
But simply accept the possibility of "down" products is not the solution.
Very quickly, we must insist on the amendment 37 on the dioxin.
On this point and we agree.
Therefore, the result is that, as European consumers, we shall continue to buying meat and milk and milk products produced in the world markets with feedingstuffs which do not bear any relation to the thresholds and the limit values that we have set as the European Union, and with a system of feed production that is acquiring raw materials on the international markets, free of any mixing principle and formulation prior to sell their products in the territory of the Union.
Before the second reading, we need to know the opinion of the Commission on how it will carry out the assessment of risk factors.
On the contrary, it would be unfortunate to be approved, for example, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, because that would mean that would disappear the possibility for Member States to intervene promptly in the face of the new dangers to discover.
Consumer protection begins with the animal feed, the content of feed, your statement and, finally, its administrative control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Paulsen on undesirable substances in animal feed deals with an important issue which, as all the important issues, raises many discrepancies.
Mr President, the discussion on this excellent report by Mrs Paulsen had very emotional undertones in a few points, and I think that, once this debate is over, we must build on the basis that the requirements of the industry of fodder for cattle are certainly strict but then we can do that quality is changed agregando components.
These three proposals addressed, individually and collectively, the serious shortcomings that the dioxin crisis has brought to light.
Amendment No 33 reexportar removes the possibility of the country of origin headings not regulations.
Amendments Nos 41, 42, 43 and 44, which propose introducing the possibility of watering down under certain conditions of raw materials contaminated feed, are also unacceptable.
That should be enough, given our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering the whole food chain and animal feed in the new proposal on the food safety authority.
Commissioner Byrne, following this directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs behind the basic an old problem, namely the open declaration.
This is already a benefit that I has brought this morning's sitting.
If we do, if it so transponemos quickly and also quickly if we completed the codecision procedure, no doubt we will have gained a lot, and I am sure that we will be able to maintain a firm position and unanimous before the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the future too can happen again or at least it cannot be ruled out that in feedingstuffs are introduced raw materials polluted.
The BSE scandal was the example serious more and better known.
The common sense - the rapporteur has said - would obviously have a label an open, to present the list of ingredients.
I believe that the technical qualifications and competence of the members of the Committee on Agriculture to judge on the issues related to agriculture and also with the animal feed is indisputable from the point of view of the search for a solution with a practical guidance and practicable, farmers and consumers affected can implement and understand.
So far the positive side.
In my opinion, is a legitimate right to information must be satisfied.
I ask you, Madam President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries and on my own, to send the Parliament's condolences to the families of the victims and the local authorities of both Britain as of Marín, Galicia, where they are from the majority of the victims.
(The Parliament adopted the resolution.
Is there a Member who is opposed to the tabling of this oral amendment?
It is precisely as the rapporteur explained things.
The majority of their technical proposals deserve to be supported enthusiastically, for example those relating to food safety, the dismantling of nuclear power stations of first generation, to the protection of the environment, the fight against social dumping, indispensable to the code of conduct for companies in the West when working on this, and so on, the task is enormous, and also an absolute priority.
At the same time, to overcome barriers are considerable, above all in the budget level.
Enlargement to thirteen countries not only change the geopolitical context of the European Union, but also to change their structure, because the total population will increase (+ 28%), but at the same time, will the number of disadvantaged regions ".
In this context, we must bear in mind that, due to their strong economic and social weight, a competitive agriculture and food will have a decisive importance for the success of the process of transformation and restructuring of the candidate countries.
In this respect, I would like to see the outermost regions, of which on 6 and 7 are still figurando in the group of the poorest 10 of the EU, are beneficiaran of the structural funds, not only on the basis of the sole criterion of GDP, but also on the basis of geographical and demographic indicators, especially social.
As we reject it, for the sake of the French, we cannot in all conscience, approve its enlargement to the countries and peoples to the east, just released by the Communist dictatorship, which may not yet know the trap technocratic and totalitarian in wishing to fall.
Because we would be content with the national reports and, as much as possible, a brief resolution, but full of content.
The current system, with subsidies, grants and quotas, must be replaced by free trade and the adequacy of markets.
The importance and the extent of the problems connected with the enlargement is not compadecen with the double language on which it has been used within the European Union.
For me to speak of enlargement does not recognise the membership or not membership of some countries in Europe.
Our neighbouring country has worked with determination over the last ten years to meet the criteria for accession.
Latvia has its place in this House, not only because its progress overall, give credit for this right to "confidence" indispensable to complete a successful negotiation of this kind, but, above all, and above all, because in Europe is at home.
Gawronski with this report, I feel that Poland is the rule, among all those who have applied for membership than others, which deserves our support, given that, without the extremely important initiatives of Poland, would not have fallen communism and today we would be talking about this problem.
This is perhaps not so obvious to the population, which is still largely eurosceptic.
I would appeal to Prague to welcome this signal, this request, this request for the establishment of a dialogue, and to respond to him and ensure, together with this House, to make it possible to overcome the legacy of a nationalist was.
- I welcome the Wiersma report on Slovakia's application for membership of the European Union and I agree with most of the conclusions to which is the rapporteur.
I am very happy to take this opportunity to address a very welcome to the elderly and pensioners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as stated in Mr Morillon's report.
If Romania continues to make progress and the European Union adapts its institutional structure and policies in order to cope with enlargement I can see no reason why that Romania should not be admitted to the Union.
Whatever solution is taken with regard to the settlers, and it is one of the difficult issues, together with the return of land on both sides, it is too hard unless we make some provisos.
Unfortunately, some of the points that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy discharged in the draft report on Cyprus' s membership application to the European Union does not make matters easier.
This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of goodwill on the part of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey.
Stenzel report (A5-0243 / 2000.
Unfortunately, a slight sufrí food poisoning in the European Parliament.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the prohibition of the dissolution of the European Commission proposal.
We must urge countries for ASEM in this resolution to put pressure on the military regime in Burma to re-establish democracy.
We part-sessions in our approach and implementation.
We cannot afford be faint hearts?
Some important aspects of the regulation are: firstly, the regulation of the burden of proof.
The equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the EU.
That is why we need legislation against discrimination.
In part, as a result, we have before us a great deal of legal and technical amendments seeking to ensure a level of equal treatment against discrimination on the grounds of race, on the one hand, and on the grounds of religion, disability, age and sexual orientation, on the other hand.
He had to make an effort to balance, moderation and good technical legal and his report reflects - in my opinion these qualities.
We also believe that the cases of discrimination are not as many as to merit legislation.
In the action programme, there are not sufficient funds to replace this work taking place in the fifth framework programme and, hopefully, to be followed in all other framework programmes, although we must ensure that they are compatible.
Everyone agrees with which we must fight against discrimination, but opinions vary on how to do so, to what extent and in what methods.
I had an opportunity, in the Commission, the indignarme against the fact that the experts could also be outside the NGOs and however have things to say.
We are also very satisfied with the provision of the directive that makes it clear that equal treatment for disabled also means that we are waiting for companies to make adjustments in the workplace.
Only in this way will fight effectively against discrimination in all areas of human coexistence in Europe.
After all, as we teach the great democracies anglosajonas, racism and discrimination are fighting with liberal democracy and not with the restriction or the progressive erosion of freedom of opinion and expression, association and economic.
We have a proposal that homosexuality amounts to the same category as the Holy marriage.
Strengthening the positions of the European Union to specific situations vividas by people with regard to discrimination and equal treatment.
I would also like to dwell on the issue of exclusion of religion.
There are those who have expressed concern about the possible interpretation of the recitals relating to Article 1, which, once again, may seem unclear, but they make a distinction between the sexual orientation and behaviour.
So there is hierarchies in discrimination.
The New Caledonia, preference is on a basis of cromática skin.
The first positive element of the directive is the universal approach that was conceived from the treatment of discrimination, which is particularly important if we want a proper application of the directive.
So those who come here to say that Europe must not pick up in a directive values which we all want to defend, the confused.
We must not interfere in these achievements we shall achieve with so much effort.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
Experience has shown us that the promotion of legislative measures to combat discrimination is essential, but not enough.
We must avoid red tape absurd, that the only thing we will manage to reduce Europe to a purely materialistic entity, politically correct, but devoid of meaning.
I think that this Parliament has adornado as if it were a Christmas tree the little advanced legislation that the Commission would have liked to put on the table.
I want to begin by thanking both rapporteurs, Mr Mann and Mr Cashman, this excellent report.
I will accept the amendments seeking to highlight the importance of preventing and combating discrimination.
The second category is intended to clarify the text of the Commission proposal and the third covers a large number of amendments seeking to adapt the proposal for a directive on the race, adopted last June.
In particular Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 20 propose the removal of the reference to discrimination on the grounds of racial and ethnic origin.
I cannot accept the references made by the Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment applies only to individuals.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon?
We cannot wait for a public support for operations of the establishment of peace, if our troops are exposed to die as a result of shells from weapons that we ourselves have supplied.
In my own country, to possess a escopeta would require a licence, but not for instalarme as seller arms in a cobertizo of my garden.
Another important point is the ban on the export of equipment, promotion and marketing and know-how used to inflict torture.
Having said this, of course I would like to congratulate Mr Titley on his excellent report.
We must extend our examination, on the one hand, in addition to the issues of force compulsory, and also to other aspects outside the teams destined to strict military use, such as the own disarmament and to increase the efficiency of the body of police and customs authorities, and then, on the other hand, to the applicant countries for accession, as just mentioned by Mr Wiersma.
The control over the cycle of money strongly makes it more difficult to circumvent the provisions on trade in arms.
The aim of the annual report is to identify the possible improvements.
The European Union is currently examining the possibility of continuing the project after its expiry in November of this year.
We have defined a methodology and indicators and will be presented at the next Council "research '.
Thank, Mr Commissioner?
With regard to the problems of SMEs, of course we have seen that in the framework programme, the SMEs have their part, as planned in the budget decision.
This is, at least, what seems colegirse the debate on the budget in Greece and the fact is that many invoke the views of the European Union is this true?
As regards the pluridisciplinaridad, share his view.
The first is that specifically mentioned in his report the participation of the EU in national programmes.
It would not be possible to speak of European research area if we represent only 5% of this research.
Thank you, Mr Busquin?
On the one hand, and after the effort to commit fully funds at the end of 1999, requests for instance at the beginning of this exercise for the financing of new projects were necessarily very small.
But I repeat that Portugal did things right in the previous period, which I would simply like to point out, and I would like the figures for 26 September, is that the funds actually committed by Portugal and for the new period (Commissioner, I am only a year ago) reach a 2.6%.
Question No 2 by (h 0730 / 00):
Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions of uses and consumption of mineral oils does not lead to a not comply with Community provisions on competition.
Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in cases where the Member States to encourage means fiscal given sector of industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case the fiscal state aid, which amounts to a subsidy.
For example, nuclear energy is a very clear case and appropriate.
Subject: budget line relating to minority languages, the budgetary resources allocated to the European Union since 1983 for minority languages recorded a constant increase in 1995, until the year in which reached their maximum amount, EUR 4 million.
Mr President, Members of Parliament will know that the Structural Funds - and this is a novelty spent many resources for cultural activities, because I have stressed, Michel Barnier, in that they are not only invest in roads and airports but also in people.
So that next year the Commission will not formulate new financial commitments in this regard.
In relation to the specific proposal for funding, I cannot adopt a position, because we must respect the normal procedures.
- (SV) I thought in many alternatives.
And it is a fact that we have to face, because we are talking about millions of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe.
What rules relating to the treatment of products of the elk hunting, for example, also apply to the meat used for consumption itself?
If these rules are aplicasen to meat which consume hunters, would be a disaster for the bureaucratic elk hunting.
When it is finished that report, I intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of inadequate observance of the limits on working hours in the coming weeks.
In the meeting that celebré with the Group of the Greens have already discussed this issue.
Our question was clear: what measures does the Commission? The Mr Morillon.
The general product safety requires also to producers to provide consumers with information on the risks.
The case of Maryam ayubi is extremely worrying.
Question No 14 by (h 0745 / 00):
The attitude of the EU with regard to this ministerial meeting in Vientiane and if, in fact, be held or at what level must be represented in the EU it will depend on the development of the situation in Burma now and December.
The one final point?
Elections are an important step for the population of Kosovo should be involved in the administration of their communities.
I can tell you that the development of these elections has been more democratic, better than that of the elections in our own countries, in which I participated or on many occasions I have been observer.
But what we saw as a principle and not, in any way, as the end of the process.
The reports advocates a better control and more closed on trade in arms and for greater transparency.
Now that each year descubro increase for contracts and weapons components of weapons.
We cannot take real decisions based on information and realities apparent.
The provision for which have been kept together in the same directorate-general should be subject to review.
Although these institutions must have the option to appoint an internal auditor, is enough to impose certain requirements minimum audit of the financial controller.
This proposal does not have the unanimous approval of this Parliament as the Commissioner well knows.
Therefore, we have no objection to the creation of the internal audit service independent, that today we are giving the green light to the report by Mr van Hulten.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
The modernisation of the administration is urgently necessary in our view.
An independent audit it is crucial to avoid mistakes.
The money must be spent on the future of a more tight to objectives and more effective and, of course, be better to ensure that the funds to devote to the purposes for which it has allocated by the budgetary authority.
With regard to the amendments proposed, I would like to mention very briefly the following: the Commission accepts the introduction of additional recital.
Therefore, I would like to thank you for your proposals and the Council.
I would like to summarise the proposals in this report which I think are most important and specifically viable. First, the creation of a group of experts composed personalities of recognised standing, appointed by the Member States, to help establish parameters of media minimum protection of minors; second, the creation of a code of self-regulation between all operators in the sector; third, the possibility of promoting and to make available the filtering systems for both the television and the Internet.
Unfortunately, I cannot subscribe to the requests of the liberal.
This remains essentially task of the Member States' legislation, which does not exclude, however, the possibility of a consensual agreement at European level on certain indicative values, through dialogue with all the parties involved.
However, and to equality in other circumstances, I think it is up to parents to deter their children to see this kind of programme at home.
Parents need special assistance in this area, which must include the following: common parameters for the protection of minors media throughout the territory of the European Union; the installation and the possibility of having filtering systems at affordable prices; legal provisions relating to the protection of minors and the responsibility of the media, companies and providers of public and private sectors.
Then I am surprised, and this is a euphemism, to hear some say, during the debates in committee, which is proof that we can have a harmful influence on children, violence on television in all its forms.
With regard to the introduction of a code of self-regulation, we must note, particularly from a technical point of view, that in certain Member States have already introduced by broadcasters codes of adjustment for television that should allow parents corten the mainstream.
The debate is closed..
In particular, my report replaces the valuable generalisations international for a referral, indeed, of the decisions of the Member States.
This would be the least to give us this area of freedom, which is a fundamental right of every citizen of Europe.
There are still, President, that have not been paid since 1996.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Evans and Mantovani, the work done.
I would recommend this report to the House and I would recommend support for the amendments tabled by Mr Evans.
Our human resources are only our future in a world where the knowledge is better.
Not solved the problems with green papers, white, black, red, but with a specific action.
But the Parliament, and that is its role, Parliament pressed for researchers were despite everything, including in the same text.
Today we visit at a crucial moment for the future of European construction.
However, we know that the process is not complete and that its inconclusión threatens their vitality.
If we do not now, in this delicate and tumultuosa stage of European and world history, when we will do this?
None of us can now claim to know exactly when and with what sequence achieve these objectives, but we all know that believe in them and deseándolos fervently, we will have gone the halfway point.
We must ensure that women are benefiting from the work induced, whilst preventing the recurrence of the same inequality than in the more traditional sectors: less specialized part-time jobs, is sometimes not elected contracts, insecure and difficulty of access to the management posts.
Will be presented to the Council a proposal of indicators to measure the progress made in this respect.
And finally, in short, the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reaffirms the integrated approach of equality with the gender mainstreaming and the specific guidelines.
I am thinking in particular of the violence suffered by them, one of the priority issues of my government action and also in particular mobilizing that I know the honourable Members.
We know that the measures of the reconciliation of family and professional life particularly conducive to women, though still missing studies on the current situation of the family and the role that women play in the same, which is no longer the traditional, given that society has changed a lot and, in parallel, the structure of the family as well.
Sometimes, even colleagues in this Parliament believe that there are, but that is not the case.
I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that the equal opportunities begins in the home.
This position seems embarrassing and ambiguous and deserves, I believe, reflection for projects that are proposed, because it is not certain that with all this desemboquemos in practice.
In this area, not there is an equality.
The image of the European women, in which it discovers over the pages of our report, in our directives, not dovetails with Danish these women who are mostly to the euro.
In this respect I think it is significant that the report insists that balance numerical in all sectors of society, for example in the labour market.
That is why I think it is a missed opportunity in this report because marriage and the family are completely marginalised.
That is something that should also take account of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities!
We have heard that the previous presidency of the Council first reestructuró the Ministry of equal opportunities for their country to then eliminarlo.
Salaries means that women are still lower, on average, almost 28% of the men, which contributes to that women are the most of the poor and makes its participation in social and political life.
That is an excellent?
In Europe today we see an impoverishment of women employees and also in France, where the 15% of them live, at the end of the day, with less than 3.650 French francs per month.
Not all countries have been able to follow his example and I hope that the example of France end fructificando in other countries.
Of course, the history of women is very long.
We must help the truth to the candidates to be put to the level of the acquis communautaire.
But would the aid.
It is not the case, but it is a text satisfactory and, after long and think after a broad debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs chose not to table amendments.
The Committee on Legal Affairs, after a long debate, understood that it was not reasonable to maintain the legal uncertainty for six years, for three years, which is the term to set a deadline, is more than reasonable to, with adequate resources and a medium-sized diligence, can be reached to establish whether or not there have been irregularities in a declaration.
It is about Amendment No 15, relating to fraud.
The aim of reaching a communication simplified but above all to high-quality legislation with a sufficiently flexible, with an improvement in the procedure recaudatorio and with greater adaptation of the provisions in the field of customs duties, the red responds to one of the requirements of the single market, and has been achieved, even to the extent that many countries have been based on her quickly in order to be able to participate in international trade.
Palacio, their effort and the interest with which they have worked in the drafting of this report.
Welcome
I hope that this does not change the meaning of the vote to express, but the truth is that we need to verify the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report?
It is recognised that the knowledge of foreign languages is a necessary precondition for mobility.
We believe that the Member States, in themselves, will have to decide the tax they wish to apply.
I regret that both the much-needed a proposal to introduce a period of limitation to retain the documentation for a limited period has not obtained a majority of votes.
During the negotiations on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we welcome the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or philosophical beliefs not sectarian, disability, age or sexual orientation.
My final point concerns the budget for this programme, i.e. 98,4 EUR sum, that is, of course, inadequate for the actions planned.
The arguments put forward in this amendment emerges explicitly that its purpose is also to intervene in the age of provisions in force in the Member States, which are, however, perfectly justified on the grounds of psychological development and have no impact in working life.
In my opinion, it also spare everything stipulated in the new Article 12 (b).
In terms of belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this field.
- (SV Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equality in the workplace.
But this only says something of the staff of an internal audit service and nothing of the importance of financial or the usefulness of this service.
The EU has decided to put in place a common military capacity to fulfil the objectives of the so-called Petersberg (the fight against the crisis and conflict resolution outside the territory of the EU), however, does not have a common defence policy.
The world would be safer without weapons?
With this resolution does not want to reduce radically arms sales in order to promote a disarmament policy, but only regulating them to ensure more benefits of industrial groups.
The communication from the Commission acknowledges the problem but not proposes concrete measures because ofuscada is the logic of the liberalisation of the market and of competitiveness, and thus no proposal touches the harsh reality, especially for children, the unaccountability of multinational companies, which, in its pursuit of profit, ignoring the impact of the programmes and their products and move the entire responsibility for parents, also inviting them to consume new products to protect their children.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that measures to protect young people from the programmes and violent harmful should not be limited to the traditional television, but applied to all the media.
With an average of three hours, is the most important human activity after the dream, and for adults, following the work.
Furthermore, women are often jobs' flexible '; the temporary contracts or low wages are typical of the sectors that employ mostly to women.
We are still falling as first victims of cuts in public expenditure, the privatisations in the field of health, the right to medical and pharmaceutical - how much more the law on the programmes of prevention and information.
B5 0792 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left, on the crisis in Peru.
Mr President, I really hope that instead of having a debate on Latin America in connection with some urgency abordáramos this issue following a well thought-out discussion in the committees.
We must see to it that Peru to reach the goal of candidates to be up to the challenge and that they can respond to the demand of the Peruvian people of a policy of a substantial renewal and democracy.
The joint debate is closed..
We know that the Afghanistan is not far away, that Afghanistan is the largest producer of opiates world, and so we know and we can imagine the role played by these mafias policies, which are not only policies, the expansion of trade in drugs.
Calls on the Commission to take humanitarian aid programmes targeting the Afghan people, not to forget to nobody in the territory.
This is the suffering caused tremendous conflict.
For years, a budget line is financing programmes of mine clearance and prevention.
Mrs Paciotti, I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources intended for mine clearance.
B5 0794 / 2000 by Mr Medina Ortega, Mr Linkohr and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the abduction of a Spanish in Colombia Jesuit participant in negotiations with the guerrilla;
Unfortunately, all we would not have to return to talking about Colombia.
The Commission has already shown its willingness to coordinate the actions of this package in the next few days intends to allocate ample resources for this purpose.
Therefore, once again, apply two weights and two measures, and I think we should deplorarlo.
The attitude adopted by the Albanian opposition I find it incomprehensible, especially since deliberately refuses to accept a solution is intended to remedy an Albanian problem in Macedonia.
I think it is extraordinary that the Macedonians within their own country to reach agreements with each other.
However, the government, which has shown an enormous courage to find a solution to the problem university and many other matters, needs clear indications positive as well as a strong support otherwise, the consequences for peace in the area can be harmful.
The PHARE resources earmarked for the year 2000 in the framework of the national programme can be used in addition to help the university during the next year, i.e. the academic year 2001-2002.
I would like to point out that today we all the Greek Members of the European Parliament we have reacted to this situation.
As a whole, and this concerns Greece, which has the greatest maritime sector throughout the European Union, basically concerns the security of the entire shipping in the whole of the Union.
In recent years, in our own waters, have been given many lives at sea, not only on accidents but also the large ferries, too often, between our fishing community.
On the contrary, is exploited the innocent victims to promote the wider objectives of shipowners.
We must bear in mind that there is also a matter of the credibility of the European Union.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Commission is absolutely convinced that the problem of European legal provisions on the safety of passenger ships must be a priority of the concerns of the European Union, and that is to ensure a strict and uniform application of the same throughout the Community.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, discúlpenme for being somewhat late for reasons which you well know, to make a very brief statement on the two issues which are on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade, and in the former Republic of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
Commissioner Verheugen is going to be expressed, as did Mr Solana on the two issues we are dealing with this evening, namely the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
We must show willing to fulfil this promise to respect the will of the people.
Madam President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, I am taking part in this debate with reservations, because it wanted to Parliament apareciese solely as a judge authorised to launch an anathema against this or that, at a time when, after the hopes so strongly encouraged here a month ago, we are faced with the tragic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the Middle East.
Madam President, my speech today, is not based on a number of analysis distance, but in my own experience of the last week, as if by chance, I was in Jerusalem and in the Gaza Strip when occurred in these disturbances.
Although I am against all violence, cannot be dealt with in the same yardstick the Israeli violence and Palestinian violence.
I would ask Parliament, at this critical moment, make a statement of support to the courageous today who have stood up for freedom in the streets of Belgrade, echoing the support that we Europeans, not many years we give to those in other capital also fighting for their freedom.
Europeans, Madam President, would certainly very inspired the flight recogieran if we launched the ball here by the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
The position of Jerusalem is complicated issue in the negotiations.
For years he has managed to mislead the people of your country with its propaganda machine, and the brutal repression of the media and, unfortunately, has also managed to engatusar many people of the Western world by creating a false picture of the reality.
While the drama concludes, it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of the free and united Europe, to support the masses around Parliament Yugoslav and help to Mr Kostuníca to achieve and play its mandate.
It is precisely its position so hard makes us fear the worst at the same time - and current events corroboran these phrases that were drawn up a few hours ago.
I wonder whether the Commissioner is already looking at the steps to be given to make it clear that we regard Kostunica really legitimate as the elected representative of the Serbian people, and as the real partner with whom the European Union wants to speak from today.
The European Parliament wishes to express its full solidarity at this historic moment in the tyranny of tambalea triunfa and democracy.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0237 / 2000) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 2000 / 24 / EC so as to extend the Community guarantee granted by the European Investment Bank loans for projects in Croatia [COM (2000) 289 - C5-0336 / 2000 - 2000 / 0122 (CNS)).
We must welcome the new political direction to be opened in this country after the legislative and presidential elections.
Between the EU and Croatia exercises its functions, among others, a group of consultants whose mission is to offer Croatia its experience and technical assistance within the framework of the negotiations for the agreements on the normalization of relations.
Let us not forget that until recently, Croatia was an example of paper of a programme of privatization completely failed, of which only benefited few this process should be supported in its entirety.
The amount of EUR 250 million in the form of an EIB loans for the period 2000 2007 we are debating will not be a milestone, but it will help and encouragement.
It is not quite correct to talk in the report of democratisation ´ '.
When Croatia and Slovakia managed for the first time a independence apparent, acted as vassal regime of Hitler.
We could also, of course, having considered the issue of the application of the Croatian and guarantee the same issue in the context of the debate yesterday evening, and the situation in Belgrade.
It seems that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this union of democracies is delayed only a few days.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 6 October 2000.
(The House rose and observed a minute's silence.
My question is this: who is entitled to speak on behalf of the European Parliament on this status?
I would ask you, Madam President, that you will make all possible efforts to speed up the procedure under way in the Committee on Petitions about a letter of protest to have more than thirty collective and social NGOs against this situation, in which blatantly has breached the Community rules on radiation protection.
The post-mortem practised in Georgia has clearly shown that this was a murder possible with torture.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are presented with the opportunity to take a big step towards our dream - which, incidentally, I do not share.
This is the basic legislation and the basis for any other rules concerning modified plants by means of genetic engineering.
Of course, will be a blunder of leg to another.
(The sitting was suspended at the 17.40 p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.)
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0291 / 2000) by Mrs van lacker, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the Commission communication to the Council [COM (2000) 379 - 0508 / 2000 - 2000 / 2219 (COS)], the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the political agenda partner.
Thirdly, there is only one issue: to emphasise the importance of this open method of coordination does not mean that this method will replace the social legislation, because we in Europe also set of social rights, we must have the courage to draw up minimum social standards and must be a social legislation with a view to the European internal market.
Similarly, in our opinion, we support the social dialogue and cooperation with civil society and especially with women's associations of the countries that are preparing its annexation of the European family, since there too, we must achieve a uniform development to continue the steps and the logic of the rest of Europe.
The areas of action listed in the Commission communication have also been the subject of an overall agreement.
I remember, at this stage of my speech, which will be held a seminar in Biarritz European presidiré, that, on this subject, 4 and 5 December.
With regard to the fight against exclusion, we have progressed much to define, on 17 October, the Council on the 'employment and social policy', appropriate objectives of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which will form the basis for national action plans.
I have heard in certain quarters that, having read the report, we agree with the diagnosis, but not with the formula.
Technological development and new methods of organisation are also in favour of a flexible cooperation where apostemos more on objectives and to achieve results and less rigid by a regulation.
We must seek to that side, in our opinion, the arcaísmo that they are being accused those who expect a market without obstacles to the best of all worlds.
Certainly, it has contributed to reducing the discontent among workers in our country and to increase investment in the country from outside.
On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
If we talk of a Charter of fundamental rights and if we look in favour of a European constitution cannot be estrábicos, but I must say that we have to take all steps necessary, even if this requires legislation more attentive not think Mrs
I would point out critically the absence of initiatives on the new challenges in the workplace protection, on the participation of workers and in labour relations.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner and the Minister, Mrs Péry, this presentation of the social policy agenda.
As we know, the Conservatives are opposed to these points them our group attaches particular importance.
The third issue is enlargement?
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
The Commission measures must be complemented by studies on access to individual health systems and to social security systems and pension, about the shortcomings in the work organization and, perhaps, also on the general reduction in working time.
In this way, women feel closer to Europe, and also with Europe will gain interesting and innovative ideas to be expressed through its relationship with this programme.
We expect an annual report of the President of the Commission within the framework of a debate which takes place every year in the European Parliament.
I am pleased also that is provided for a better distribution of care of children in order to facilitate the balance between professional life and family life.
My Group will take into account in the final vote.
(The President cut off the speaker off.
I find it very positive that the new approach of the Commission, and very well thought-out proposal for a decision for the 2001-2005 programme.
I believe that the large number of amendments adopted shows the common feeling of the European Commission and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain sense impotence as a result of certain decisions on mergers, especially those relating to cases where they had need to call on the Commission's decision in the Court of First Instance.
I should also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner Monti on when we can expect to be put in place a public register, effective and efficient of state aid, and also to when it will actually promised at length the table of results.
I would also make the point to Commissioner Monti that it is important that in the next report we find a rather more extensive section devoted the financial services sector.
What I said, it is not only in the field of energy policy, but also for all the other areas.
Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work, as regards both reports to emit a favourable judgment both on his work, on the staff of the Directorate-General for Competition.
I stress this because the market cannot regulate everything and in this respect should not exist, nor can there be a unrestricted competition.
Mr President, today, no one disputes and, of course, I am not going to do, that State aid alter the conditions of competition and constitute a damaging element which encourages the inefficiency of companies.
You deny the fact that public aid have decreased during the period 1994-1998, when the Commission itself that reduction, has been at least rather odd.
And, of course, Mr President, although my opinion is concerned; the Commission report on competition policy, we cannot at the moment to look to the past, but nothing more than to learn for the future.
Mr President, during the time available, I should like to address three points: the modernisation of Community law in the field of competition, the activity developed in 1999 in relation to the rules of competition and the issue of state aid.
The Commission has followed the firm and especially against cartels and the abuse of dominant positions.
Mr Rapkay, to the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the search for its competition policy and I do not believe that that support will disappear.
This mechanism can be activated or at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which is still in force during the third stage of economic and monetary union for states that, today, are the subject of an exception, namely Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
For the future, the appeal to the capital market should continue to be the only option.
I therefore ask that the report as it stands will meet with the agreement of the House and that this can also be used in the field of material for the propagation of the vine in the internal market.
Today, its review is necessary in view of developments in the regulations and phytosanitary of scientific and technical progress has been made, in particular with regard to the increase in vitro.
Furthermore, with the precautionary principle, I refer to the possibility of genetic modifications means, for example, to reduce the intensive use of pesticides treatments. On the other hand, in the sense of caution are the amendments to the report.
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to observe the precautionary principle, both in spirit and in letter, if unfortunately articles and amendments just mentioned were not removed, need to stick to the opinion of Marianne Isler Béguin, and therefore the Committee on the Environment, and to vote in favour of its abolition.
Mr President, if you will allow me, Commissioner, could you give us its opinion on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy? is Amendment No 1.
The only point on which we could discuss it is that of whether or not I should have noted on the French Government I conveyed the resolution of languor of the mandate of Mr Le Pen.
I would remind the honourable Member that, after the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m.
In the field of Justice and Home Affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
The preparatory group will play its full role to the 19 November, the date of the next meeting at ministerial level.
We needed this climate vivificante, as was said by Mr Moscovici and also, I felt at the level of Heads of State or Government, a very serious sense of collective responsibility and historic at an historic moment in European integration.
Simply, ladies and gentlemen, will ensure that, from now on, with regard to these matters of the qualified majority, so that we do not more here the spirit or the climate in Biarritz.
This small countries are not on the orders of the largest countries of the European Union!
I would be grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council to clarify this point?
On the one hand, the presence of President Kostunica was a historic event.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, remain profound disagreements on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council, as you have pointed out.
I think that we are going in the opposite direction.
The which are outside the enhanced cooperation really enjoy the same freedom to passengers of the seats in the back of a car.
I am not here, nor the honourable Member for ingerirme in the internal affairs German, but I believe that this position is deeply coherent and is, moreover, that the direction that the Commission wants, if I am not mistaken.
We have begun to exchange views on this subject, it follows that all the Member States wish to the maintenance of this ceiling after enlargement.
I believe that it does not so.
The first: we have sometimes had the impression that in Biarritz had an obsession with the debate between the small and the large Member States.
From this point of view, I believe that it is not enough to say that we must safeguard the Community method.
In addition, when the candidate countries join, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
The wording of Article 93 is all the more dramatic terms that, once we have achieved the first wave of enlargement, we will find it even more impossible to move towards qualified majority.
We must convince the citizens of these countries to clear the merits of any new European Treaty.
Imagine that the fears Fed for generations could give new without upsets the final appeasement, prelude of reconciliation, would have been ignoring the resortes of such a crisis.
I also worrying the less correspondence on the question that Parliament is calling for the democratisation process.
The perpetrators of this are rather those who advocate are made major reforms before enlargement.
On the one hand, the head of the Israeli Government's decision to freeze the peace negotiations on the violence in the region and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration on the opposition leader, Mr.
We have learned with great satisfaction the victory of Yugoslavian people and the election of President Kostunica as.
I would advise Mr Barón Crespo to ask their Italian colleagues to explain why they are in government in Italy with a Communist Party declaradamente and why are preparing to participate in political elections with another declaradamente Communist party, the Communist Party of re-founding.
On the contrary, in this area would have to make progress in the application of the codecision procedure.
The Commission, which has the opportunity to take its decisions by a simple majority, is in a better position to give this momentum in the future.
The Union does not need now have the visionary catalejo because in the year 2030, but has need of leaders who are able to attract the problems that will bring the consumación of enlargement within 3 to 8 years, so as to provide answers to them.
Therefore, it is an open work that has not fallen and has not been imposed from above.
The debate is closed..
In the absence of this reference fundamental, at best left to understand each other, and in the worst, we matamos between us.
Democracy has improved in Europe, but, for its part, European democracy is sick.
Today, on 24 October 2000, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament says something very simple, and it says very high: the European Constitution itself, you can achieve, yes, we want.
In other words, it expresses the view that the insularity in itself is a criterion enough.
I will go to the essential concentrándome in the salient points of the report by Mr Gil-Robles, of which I shall say simply that I find this excellent.
Firstly, the the simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
I shall not go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
According to the information - I am going to be technical, forgive me - which has been communicated to the Presidency, I believe that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version, it only refers to the implementation of cohesion policy, to the least favoured islands, and not to islands in general.
Mr Duhamel, surely you will agree with me in saying that if there is no success in Nice, there will be no room, at least, there will be no credibility, for reflection on the future of European integration, at least in the current framework.
The aforementioned European Constitution will also establish a clear distribution of tasks between the Member States and the European Union and to incorporate the dynamic of European integration in those areas, such as the foreign and security policy, in that it is essential for common action.
Could it be necessary to overcome blockages persistent.
Is menester clarify the distribution of competences and the principle of subsidiarity.
As you know, in the various Member States and between the various social forces there are very different views on the matter.
Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
Indeed, in the home strengthened European peoples, will be invited to the table, military monetary, possibly tax, and then the other peoples, which will be at hand.
It is clear that the second version is incorrect because, first, in one way or another, the structural funds cover economically disadvantaged regions and, secondly, because if this interpretation is correct, we would not be on the adoption of the declaration nº30.
Mr President, I shall concentrate my small sixty seconds in the report by Olivier Duhamel, which is a good report, because it dares to say things clearly, and the lyrical about, our rapporteur has definitely convinced of this a while ago.
In my opinion, the unity of Europe can only be political.
We believe that the new Constitution should be about to enter into force in the next European elections.
Consequently, the epithet 'least developed' applies both to the island regions and the rest of the Regions and, according to the proposal by Mr Barnier, what we have here is a change in the Italian version of the Treaty, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
The debate is closed..
As my colleague said that it was going to vote against this amendment, lapses.
Mr President, what is being asked here is a formula for the chaos.
I welcome the adoption by the European Parliament the Trakatellis report, because it has to be set high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives.
If the European parliamentary immunity is autonomous, the French authorities should be required us the lifting of Mr Le Pen.
I am particularly disappointed by the European Parliament's vote on the report on the proliferation of vineyards.
For some, alcohol is as tobacco and drugs, a product which damages much of what they eat and the people who are around it, and others, on the contrary, we are mainly as a source of employment and something we can gain a lot of money.
The rapporteur broadly welcomes the proposals of the Commission's White Paper on this subject, but is concerned about the possible consequences of the reform, designed mainly to decentralise the application of the competition rules.
- (FR) Although, in the debate yesterday evening, I congratulated to Jonathan Evans on his work, I had to express my profound disagreement with the entry of excessively liberal approach, even ultraliberal, for his report.
The agency for industrial development of Ireland has been reorganizando its orientation to achieve half of the new jobs as a result of projects in the areas in the new Objective 1 region over the next three years.
The state intervention, the funding and other economic or tax incentives, on occasions, come to something to balance this situation before the alarido that cause the consequences of this policy.
The sitting was suspended at the 14.06 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
The situation in October 2000, when it is shortly to take a decision on the figures in the budget 2001, is as follows.
However, the Council did not hesitate to reduce agricultural expenditure in 555 million in total.
Moreover, we also believe, of course, that we must not simply create 400 additional posts, in addition to the current.
I can only recommend to the Council to follow our example?
The administration of this House must, therefore, in the service of the members and not the other way round.
The Court of Auditors is the least that concerns us cause at the moment.
Finally, we also corresponds to the budget of the Ombudsman.
On the contrary, we believe that it should strengthen research, particularly in view of the accession of the candidate countries.
We also propose that it be followed reporting regularly to Parliament.
And when we held a legislative conciliation on social affairs, culture or the environment - the Commissioner will acknowledge that I rightly met the budget Commissioner, the Finance Ministers and the members of the Committee on Budgets to read together, so that they do not commit a financial nonsense.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your reception.
Moreover, to give the room for manoeuvre, particularly with regard to the ceilings of heading 3 and of heading 4, the Council wants to provide Parliament, ultimately responsible in relation to these non-compulsory expenditure, the opportunity to express its priorities, without calling into question the Council, so I shall simply in the most salient points of the draft budget of the Council.
These two issues are often repeated in the discussions between Parliament and the Council and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, the tension between the two bodies of the budgetary authority.
The situation is similar in regard to the structural policy.
The outcome of the conciliation on this summer was also satisfactory, as already mentioned by Mr Colom I Naval, specifically in the sense that, in future, also extend the provision of information to Parliament in relation to the legal bases with repercussions on expenditure.
Let me remind you that in the financial perspectives that were adopted last year, only be planning 1.850 million for the entire Balkans for the period until 2006.
I would ask you again to examine this proposal - the Commission is on the table without preconcebidos trials and also to look as a possibility.
This material proved useful, obviously, for the preparation of the budget for 2001 and for the granting of discharge for the 1999 financial year.
Despite that, as a Member of the same, I appreciate very much the work of this committee and despite the great respect I deserves the work of the rapporteurs, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I cannot fail to insist on two amendments which the Commission is now presenting to plenary and I remain important though the figures have been reduced.
With these measures we propose to judicial control back to operate fully, to restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and to consolidate its nature of Community law.
The removal of this initiative on the part of the Commission, without replacing it with any other, was clearly contrary to the political will of the Lisbon summit and the priorities of this House.
It was a staggering decision and many of us had the feeling that this very important programme had become simply a ball of a football match between the Committee on Budgets and the Commission.
The third issue is the European agricultural policy as now appears in the draft budget.
If employment is the political priority of the Union, the fisheries sector, as an economic sector more, cannot remain on the sidelines.
I am particularly pleased that has been possible to guarantee the funding of the programmes, Socrates and Culture 2000 juventd finalizaban that, at the end of last year.
For example, our aid to the Mediterranean countries has a delay affecting the budgets for many years.
Mr President, in the debates of previous years I spoke on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, to which Mrs Iivari has represented this evening.
But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we must not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends only 1% of GDP and the administration of a large part is carried out by the Member States.
Let me turn to the global strategy?
This brings me to the strategy of our group, because it is essential to our vision is the desire to have a proper performance funds for European citizens.
On the contrary, we must work for a Parliament to campaign in favour of transparency, efficiency and the effective democratic control of the European institutions.
This happens when we consider how we can resolve this problem.
We want to promote democratisation processes and we want to maintain a balance between the traditional areas of foreign policy which we must now address.
The problems in the preliminary draft budgets are related to external actions.
Of course, we need a rigorous management; we support and we should not try to eludirla.
It is a highly exceptional initiative, especially at first reading, and this is a thankless initiative, because we cannot, in the current context, to obtain a majority of votes in favour.
That said, the importance of funding for Kosovo is bound to raise some problems.
The budgetary policy must ensure that the citizens have confidence in European policy.
All the measures designed to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, also deserve our support.
The level of budgetary implementation;
Preserving this line in the strategic approach to the budgets of this year and next, the European Parliament is fully space in the budgetary process.
With the transfer of EUR 175 million, we calculated, approximately EUR 25 million more than we expected.
As regards the MEDA, the Council said that the commitments were not a problem, in view of the eight years of delays in payments.
I think that Mr Duff was present this morning when we mention the European Council in Biarritz.
My reply will be very simple?
Ramiro Zapata has been the last of the 25 human rights activists have been murdered and, recently, the press has denounced the "Plan Colombia" 100 of the paramilitary groups to assassinate a hundred human rights defenders.
Today I am a little more satisfied that in July with the attitude of the Council, because, as many times in crisis situations, the European Union always seem to come to the final authority on the international stage and to make its voice heard.
The question, Mr President, I will end, that is if there is a formula for greater pressure that the proposal by the President in his information and if the aid that we are going to give will be completely different from that of the United States, that is not directed at the fumigation of crops, but to the replacement of crops and also to the social aspects and not to the military.
The questions that other Members and I have asked specifically relate to the situation in Colombia.
As they deal with the same subject, Question Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
Subject: tax on financial transactions in the demand for a tax on speculative capital has been gaining ground in recent months, with the proliferation of committees (Attac association pour unites taxation South them transactions financières et citoyens pour l ´ aide aux) in France and in Europe, and the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and the Senate in the same country.
I would also like to respond to the question of its influence on the volatility of the currency markets and, especially, the effect of a tax on the 0.1 per thousand speculators to expect devaluations of the order of 20 to 50%.
On the other hand, called for in paragraph 6, the establishment of an international organisation to arbitrate to cancel the debt of the countries of the South.
It is, moreover, what happened in the case of the euro in the scale of a year, whether for regret or desearlo.
I would add, Danielle Auroi, what I said earlier in relation to the countries of the South, which some estimates, made by specialists, give interesting figures: for example, which is a range of 50 to 250 billion dollars, it could recover a Tobin tax rate. The UNDP, for its part, the figure for a sum of 40 billion dollars per year, an amount that could be sufficient to give life to the minimum conditions of hundreds of millions of people who are all in third world countries.
The disease has been detected in recent months, for example, in various places of France.
Taking advantage of appearing to be a representative of the French Presidency, I ask you: the abonarán these massacres of beef from the funds from the EU budget, or you will be paid in national budgets, and you would be indicated that pagasen from the EU budget?
I would ask indulgence to hear the response, please.
Therefore, the action of the two governments concerned is limited by this international law.
I think it is a mystery that the Commission can already say in February and the Council in July how is needed.
By acting in this way in the name of subsidiarity, in reality, the Union abdica one of its tasks, as has happened in recent weeks, both in the north of Italy and Spain.
As a Member of the European Parliament interested in this majority, how can I approve the expenditure of 11 500 million UK taxpayers - our current annual contribution, when it does not have a broad public approval?
With a flexible position by the Council, could reach an agreement at second reading to close the budget.
If someone is not yet convinced, to examine simply testing.
Joan Colom I Naval, Vice-President responsible for buildings, has already introduced this strategy.
Political messages in this year's budget are - as the Commissioner said many Schreyer. The restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of structural policy, the follow-up to the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to combat social exclusion.
The war of NATO has too havoc and has caused too misery.
Despite what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints without undermining the agricultural budget to a sustainable rural sector in the current Member States.
And I say so clear and unambiguous Kostunica to him: we need to give an opportunity, and I hope that in the coming weeks and months to implement an amnesty, but in the meantime I do that at political and budgetary policies are put conditions for the implementation of these two new budget lines, namely democratisation and reconstruction.
The Yugoslav elections have demonstrated two things: Finally, people have hastiado the dictator Milosevic and at the same time hopes to Professor Kostunica.
Furthermore, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners in freedom will soon.
By not doing so, inevitably caímos in the 'financial engineering, "in the redistributions and reductions either in general expenses either in social expenditure and environmental either in cooperation, but the fact is that, despite that, the appropriations for the Balkans will remain inadequate.
In this context, the need for efforts to solve the major social problems, such as, for example, unemployment.
There is an issue which, of course, is of great importance: we have started enfocando category four, but still has not been entirely clear if we have been able to give a solution, but also because the Council refuses to provide a clear ideas.
In all important work are budgetary priorities.
That is not very serious on the horizon next to the expiry of the Treaty, but it would be worrying if the legal framework postceca maintained the possibility of extending such practices.
And we step to my third point, the challenge before us now.
The new financial agreement does not indicate anything. I have seen that the European citizens increasingly mistrustful of politicians.
I pay tribute to this task.
The availability of dialogue with all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary collaboration which will allow us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
We represent European values in a country sceptical of the EU are now a new argument in favour of the Union, that is, a better protection of the integrity of the individual, something that is important for the citizens in modern society.
In my own country, the reform of the law of personal data, depriving the parliamentarians of power on the decisions of the Commission.
Many other points raise problems and also deserve the trial of practice to be insured.
The Commission would first of all to recall the commitment that we have all taken with the citizens to ensure the protection of personal data processed by the institutions.
With this statement, the Commission accepts that the scope of the regulation to be limited purely to the activities of the first pillar.
In order to honour the political agreement that has been concluded with the Council and the rapporteur to allow for the approval at first reading, the Commission rejects any other amendment that is not part of the Paciotti report approved by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, except for Amendment No 69, which corrects Amendment No 41.
Well, it is urgent that the staff of the inter-service group being strengthened quickly at the heart of the Secretary-General of the Commission, so that all acts proposed by general scope can be accompanied, during its examination of the College, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 299, a sheet of detailed impact.
From the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, what interests me is to emphasise that, in fact, we can only deal with what is like.
Given the importance of fisheries for the outermost regions, I am bound to feel saddened to it.
Until today, since, under the chairmanship of Delors created an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long way and fruitful and who has presided over this group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans outermost regions.
In fact, even before the Treaty of Rome, reference was made to the French overseas departments, it was necessary to wait until 1989 and the programmes of specific actions linked to the remoteness and insularity, the famous POSEI, so that the European Union admitiera finally the permanence and combination of the structural problems of the outermost regions justified specific treatment with regard to the other regions of the Community.
I have no doubt that the proposals the Commission will put to the Council the stamp of these qualities.
This question is becoming more and more important as and when approaching the eastward enlargement of the EU.
I note that this right to difference is no more than a emanación principle of equality, which also needs to be treated differently from what is different.
It is a document that my team and I believe rich in ideas and it avoids any of the issues that concern the outermost Community.
Your report, Mrs Sudre, rightly emphasises the need for action in time earlier.
With regard to the relaunch of the diversification of the economy, we have made progress in a number of essential areas.
It is important now to be present in the framework of the DOCUPs a large number of projects, but, in parallel with this action on the ground, we must reflect deeply on the specific needs, access, each of these outermost regions to this information society.
The Minutes of the previous sitting
Of course I will inform the chairman of your speech.
I am concerned about the possibility that there will be a general failure of numerous devices to vote, which would call into question the decisions it makes the House.
Therefore this food safety authority as the legislative proposals that we are proposing, seeking to guarantee food safety, will have the support of this Parliament, Commissioner.
Their primary task is to provide scientific advice, as the debate on food safety has also to be worthy of credit.
Mr President, in conclusion I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive contribution and their willingness to take into account the opinion of the other committees.
When we are faced with a possible risk is important to apply the precautionary principle.
On the question of how far we should go even controversial in regard to enable it to examine the nutrition, and even the present recommendations and be consulted by those whose main task is to risk management, we have also said that in the field of security, the issues should at least be subject to the opinion and the advice of this food safety authority.
The central idea is to ensure the survival of the rich heritage of traditions.
There are laws or regulations, feel that the foundations for such respectability, but the integrity, high-quality academic, independence, the sense of responsibility, transparency and comprehensibility.
Certainly, it is essential to build on the basis of sound scientific knowledge, better to assess the risks linked to the food chain, from farm to table.
Mr President, it is clear that there is a considerable enthusiasm for the creation of a European food safety agency, as our rapporteur prefers denominarla.
Given that the programme of the who still count the money and the support necessary, it seems that there is no need whatsoever for another agency, particularly one with a limited scope as are the 15 Member States of the European Union.
The food safety is the essential precondition for the consumer because consumers want to feed sanamente and therefore we have to deal with us.
If we do not get a new framework directive many aspects relating to food safety will only remain dead letter.
Consequently, we need to change the EU Treaty in such a way as to give the Commission the power to impose sanctions in the field of food, in the same way that today is in the field of competition.
Support for all the players who support the strategy "food for all 'and who work in the political field, administrative or any other.
I do not share these words, we know that man is not only body.
This should represent the real core of coordination of the network of national agencies which, in turn, should be put in place and coordinate a network centres of excellence for food safety at regional level.
I therefore believe that his Amendment No 11 and my Amendment 17 are perfectly compatible.
The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
His report contains no many proposals for amendment, but that is limited to emphasise certain questions.
It is stated very clearly in the report and I welcome that.
However, the creation of a European food safety authority is very positive.
We wish to meet all these criteria for the good of the citizens of the Union as a whole.
I believe that we need to establish temporary margins in particular, to be informed the European Commission in cases of justified concern.
The EU must have the highest possible food safety for its citizens.
The Commission is now proposing the creation of a European food authority.
I fear that Europe corra again to the danger of a afford hinchado apparatus of officials who is unable to act.
As and when we create new levels of bureaucracy and use of funds, it is becoming less what we get in return.
Prevent or similar work in parallel various institutions.
However, we must avoid, under the debate on the White Paper, the increase in the public fear of a bureaucratic Europe, which has a bearing on the quality of products without effectively to punish the fraud that threaten the health of consumers.
As you know, the Commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety.
The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the principles and objectives of global food legislation, which will provide the framework for future measures of health protection in food.
Thank you, Mr Commissioner?
Turning now to our report, which I regard as positive the Commission proposal, and I have to say that the committees on foreign affairs and of development have worked hard to improve it further, if possible, especially in some points.
As has been said in a very clear and explicit Mrs Bonino, with the Commission's proposal for a regulation has been given a new step forward.
The Commission's proposal for a regulation is too vague.
It is necessary for the appropriation for the elimination of mines to be organised in a way which is reasonable and that financiemos research work to work of detection and disposal, for instruments that can be used in a way to provide a simple on-the-spot assistance precisely in the developing countries.
Over the last eight years, have contributed more than EUR 200 million, from the Community budget, the fight against landmines.
But we cannot penalise those who have a bad government.
Firstly, as I have already mentioned, I think it would be wrong, well intentioned, but counterproductive, to impose the accession to the Ottawa Convention as a prerequisite for Community assistance to mine action.
I accept Amendment No 19.
Secondly, the international community must improve the coordination of efforts at global level, and in particular, within the countries concerned.
Mr President, the Socialist Group shares the pride that has just expressed by Mr Van Orden with regard to the role played by the European Union.
Just think of bombs toy Soviet in Afghanistan.
Thank you for a good report?
Mr President, the Cambodian call to those mines centinelas eternal.
In the face of uniformados people have a justified suspicion that has built up over long years of war.
Mr President, I welcome the fact that there is finally a European legislation, in the form of a regulation on anti-personnel mines and today we have a good report by Mrs Bonino on it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very sad.
It is no coincidence that mines are, primarily, in crisis areas, that is to say, in the areas in which could have been taken on other initiatives in order to overcome this crisis.
The two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning sign of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
It is tragic that the civilian population who suffer as a result of the unfortunate situation of their leaders.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me welcome them on behalf of our institution, with which the country maintains its privileged relations in the framework of our common project of building an area of prosperity, security and peace around the Mediterranean basin.
All those mines are stored?
Mr President, I agree with almost everything that my colleagues have said before, I will not repeat it. I waive my speaking time.
The idea that you have the open cooperation is falling into the institutional system dominated by Commission officials.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say that decisions must be taken as close as possible to the people who will affect.
But as essential amendments from the EPP Group have just to obtain a substantial majority, I voted in favour of the report.
Mr President, I abstained from voting on the resolution on the results of the informal European Council in Biarritz, two types of reasons: the first, because I had the opportunity to vote, nominally, separately, paragraphs 2 and 5, which has allowed me to express my opposition to both head-on.
In other words, around the table of the common European home, some comerían the Charter and the other minimum menu.
And the democratic control must not miss, but we are not antojaba that the list of these rights and its inclusion in the Treaties, was the main problem in the European Union.
There has been talk of referendums and of the amendments tabled to this report on these referendums.
In the elections to the European Parliament participated in 1999 only 40 per cent of the electorate, without regard to the countries in which there is no compulsory vote to those in which were made simultaneously national elections.
To achieve the desirable objective of a European Constitution, is to impose rigid desaconsejable models and methods, which would prevent inevitably achieving the desired objective.
A real social constitution should levelling upwards the best of the achievements of the world of work, of women, immigrants and the citizens.
Even without denying a laudable intention of clarification, strengthening and deepening of the European Union, as well as a simplification of the texts needed to the proximity of its operation in relation to the citizens, I did not vote in favour.
The distribution of powers and responsibilities of
I think it is essential that the Charter of human rights in the EU involving the signing of the Convention on Human Rights of the European Council.
I support Mr Gil-Robles as it proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas of some EU Member States agree a common action.
Allow decisions on an increasing number of important issues to be taken by qualified majority is contrary to fundamental democratic standards.
Today is to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will lose the departure, also in this case.
The report aims to specify the position taken by this Parliament (in our resolution of 13 April 2000).
- (SV) In general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is favourable.
The British Labour members of the PSE group we welcome the adoption of its contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on reinforced cooperation, although it supports all the details.
These islands must feel part of the European Union, which I hope to become a haven for tourists and in a paradise for its inhabitants.
In the Middle Ages these regions and their inhabitants not belonged to Europe even now considered to be genuinely European.
Indeed, the peculiarities of these regions, general due to the islands and the remoteness of the European continent, but also to its chronic dependence on a single production or of a few, require specific measures appropriate to overcome these constraints.
Mr President, I apologise for entretener to the Presidency and the interpreters listening to my last explanation of vote and, in particular, I wish to express my solidarity with the translators for our explanations of vote, as far as I am concerned Mrs.
We clearly deduce that the aim of the agency is channel the powers of national defence paralizarlos, or, to put at the service of the objectives of the Commission.
This does not prevent the Commission and Parliament denominen this agency 'authority', European designation totally contrary to the spirit in which it is based.
That is not what we are proposing the Bowis report, which gives the impression that food safety is regarded as a fundamentally new pretext for feeding the well-known process of strengthening the powers of the Commission, to the detriment of national bodies and of the bodies which protect the safety of the citizens.
For this reason, I believe that this declaration will enable me to condemn these unspeakable acts on behalf of our European Parliament that has always argued for respect for religious freedom and tolerance between all their communities.
Madam President, I understand the objections raised by the rapporteur, but on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural development is not just vote on issues of money, but will also be voting on a particular focus on the issue.
I would ask for your support in order to introduce the necessary adjustments in the line 206, relating to the acquisition of property, depending on what amendments are adopted, with the aim of which is not our own traspasemos limit of 20% of all expenditure on administration.
Before the vote on the proposal to amend 929
Section VI, Economic and Social Committee;
Report (A5-0276 / 2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation which introduces additional technical measures for re-establishing the stock of cod in the Irish Sea (ICES Division to VII) (COM (2000) 0190 - C5 ­ 0071 / 2000 - 2000 / 0219 (CNS))
(The Parliament adopted the resolution.
Aid to exports inunde make to the world market with food surpluses in the Union, which entails serious disadvantages for the food industry in many developing countries.
In order to allow resources to increase aid to the Balkans, the Member States will be changes in the current budgets.
However, Parliament has succeeded in introducing important priorities, such as greater concern for the fight against unemployment and poverty, numerous environmental issues and equal opportunities, so we have voted against the right-wingers attacks against the LIFE programme and the lobby European women.
- (SV) In relation to the reimbursement of expenses of the transfer of the Members of the European Parliament, we maintain our view that the compensation should only cover the true that expenditure incurred for journeys in the performance of the office.
I assume that - and I hope the Commission will bring solutions in a constructive spirit cubriremos the years 2002 to 2005, with a transitional provision.
(DE) The purpose of, above all, to put a rule mordaza throughout the European parliaments, the European Commission, in its furore regulatory and liberalisation, has submitted a proposal for a regulation directly applicable, instead of a directive, which has to suffer a distressing íter procedural through Parliament and the Council of Ministers, to enter into force on 31 December 2000.
We support in this way reform efforts of the Commission and we are opposed to continue encouraging in this sector.
This has the depend a great deal of loans.
The report (Nicholson 0276 / 2000)
It is important to ensure that aid will not be used for military purposes.
Our view is always that the reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases to be achieved mainly with a cost borne by the real pollutants (that is, the large industries), to the detriment of their profits.
Report Moreira da Silva (A5-0271 / 2000.
We should spend this money concordando and coordinating the expenditure for research policy in all 15 Member States of the European Union.
It is good to get to know the truth, caution, with regard to these substances.
The period of votes resulted.
It will replace the national that now format used everywhere.
The loss of data for statistics relating to the balance of payments is minimal.
As the main imaginarán are affected, small and medium-sized enterprises.
For years we have been demanding a harmonisation of effort, because, after all, it is possible to establish a rapid system, safe and cheap.
In my opinion, this report is of capital importance for integrating effectively to the citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro area and increase the acceptance of economic and monetary Union.
There must be no obstacles or differences when there is free movement of capital with a common currency.
However, the European Parliament and the Commission give great importance.
I support the policy of two gangs with which the rapporteur wants to induce banks lazy to act.
Mr Radwan and Mrs Peijs, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, in which it requires the adoption of measures to before the end of next year and, preferably, the establishment of these standards before they enter the circulation of euro notes and coins.
The proposal we tabled by my colleague Mrs Peijs and goes in the direction that banks to sit at a table not to make concessions, because we cannot increase the more political pressure.
After all, if the system for the implementation of cross-border payments remains as expensive as it is today, the credibility of the new system of notes and coins will be called into question.
We believe that this form of the gathering of statistical data on the system of payments within the Union is a relic of the past; it in a single integrated area and would no longer be justified, and which constitute an obstacle to the proper functioning of the market.
To listen to the speeches of some of my colleagues in the committees, some here have more time, I had the impression that the exercise of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, which this Parliament submitted for the fourth time, belongs to that category.
Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance the support that will bring to my report.
If it is giving to this political action at European level, must then be offered more opportunities for regions.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, as well as in quantity. play a key role for the social cohesion and to town and country planning.
The careful that made the study of proposals and the agreement that has been pursued with many stakeholders has been a triumph for better define and optimise the establishment of this programme.
Thirdly, we must find the European added value.
It follows that small and medium-sized enterprises can only go well if the unemployment rate is reduced and the public authorities at all levels are not in debt and have adequate resources to destinarlos to the budgets of investment.
The companies need clarity?
In particular, if an employer individual or a company with 250 employees account with a project, it cannot be the only way to receive funding from the Constitution guarantees 120% but must also be possible to receive funding available for that only a good idea.
The Member States, and even the regional authorities or local already behave like real financial drenan bombs, that the taxpayers' money, i.e. sums to retain the majority of the population, including the poorest, and what bombean towards the big companies and hence towards their owners and shareholders.
The breeding ground for small and medium-sized enterprises includes thousands of fragile attempts to nutren of human potential and ideas for large companies.
Of the measures we have proposed here, the more that I would like to address the Commissioner is to facilitate and speed up the aid and access to information for people to have addressed these companies can use them effectively.
All will centre stage in the multiannual programme.
Finally, I welcome the idea of a quotation concertarnos annual to take stock of the introduction of the programme.
The recent incidents at the expense of the Greek minority in Himara made more urgent need to promote measures for the strengthening of democratic institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
A considerable number of Albanian abandons its land by the uncertainty that prevails in their country, for social difficulties, for their social structures and family premodernas.
We need to have preventive measures specifically designed to Albania that contribute to the construction or reconstruction of the country, in order to make possible a dignified life in the region.
That is going to resort to other documents and the European Commission, for example, refuses to make public the report, including the customs assistance mission (cam), drawn up by the Albanians.
The truth is we see as such.
Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the point of view broad and extensive evidence that his report.
This is a matter of the greatest importance, created under the influence of factors historical, social, political and economic.
We will never know the true number of death toll.
The common commercial activities involucran people in a peaceful manner.
What, on the contrary, I find unacceptable in this report, and I say this quite frankly, that being confused with the cause and effect, that is being confused with the procedure for issuing a visa well-considered and, consequently, the possibility of emigration, to the cause of illegal immigration.
The major institutional reforms arising from the Treaty of Amsterdam have influenced in the management of the issues of asylum and immigration.
Thirdly and finally, the action plan and its methods of implementation must be evaluated by areas.
But, of course, this request also requires us to us not excedernos in the volume of adoption of Community rules.
It has now recalcarse of the strength of the Community action.
I, too, so that the changes to the proposals on codification of European legislation in force is carried out by the inclusion of the amendments in the directive or regulations in force.
Understood with ownership, the principle of subsidiarity points in two directions: the decision-making at the lowest possible level, and the recognition that the lowest possible level may, in fact, a very high level, when there is general goods at stake that lost unless they are protected in the same terms everywhere.
The report is a model of draft clear and concise and I hope colleagues will take with the seriousness it deserves.
The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was not with the enthusiasm of its members.
To that I referred to in the report on the SLIM project, because the Community legislation, and Mr Medina us just prove with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
Therefore, I am certain aspects of the report I produce little enthusiasm, because I would have liked to have seen a report more "comunitarizante" with regard to the internal market and, above all, on this point, of course, are not the wind is blowing in the report.
It is important for the EU institutions is that we have a strong commitment to raise the quality of legislation, particularly with regard to subsidiarity.
The debate is closed..
The maintenance of this situation could adversely affect the acceptance and in the opinion of the citizens about the euro.
Mr President, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs are preparing a conscientious the Karamanou report.
However, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I wish to take our oral question and this debate to express both sides - is addressed to both our motion for a resolution - and I do so with great composure, some considerations.
The peoples of the European Union whom we represent here so demand.
But, it has risked much water under the bridge, the agreement has prescribed and has not been replaced.
I understand the reasons for the Commissioner, but I cannot understand the the Director-General.
We could say, eleven months after the mooring, we are still paying the previous agreement and the previous the previous.
Mr President, a year ago we had a similar debate and the fact that he had to spend a year to give beginning negotiations highlights the difficulty of finding the grounds for the enormous fleets of the EU.
In the second agreement, things were very clear.
But we also have to understand that nothing is eternal, but even fish!
Therefore, particularly interests me to make it clear that, if something has been emphasised by the PPE-DE Group is not only in support, defend and promote the fisheries agreements, but firmly in promoting its extension.
Thirdly, since it was interrupted the fisheries agreement, has continued the exploitation of waters of Western Sahara for Community fleets and non-Community which are not subject to the control of either the Commission or the Member States: it speaks of a particularly important fleet in the Netherlands.
I understand that, since these fishing activities represented a source of income and to work for a poor region in relation to the rest of Europe.
Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that at the end of the month concludes temporary aid paid to the fishermen and shipowners to compensate for this year of staging. It is an untenable situation, given that all prefer the work on aid.
This parliamentary Andalucista leads a year negotiating and proposing initiatives by the corridors, by the offices, in the Committee on Fisheries and in the hearings with the Commissioner to take account of the especialísima andaluza idiosyncrasies of the fishing fleet which fishes in Morocco.
Spain has developed an outstanding way the most difficult neighbourhood relationship that has been recurrentemente in history between Europe and North Africa, between Spain and Morocco.
As parliamentary Spanish and reivindico Andaluz, the right of thousands of families Andalusian and Spanish to maintain and to defend, and to defend it from this Parliament, their jobs, which are in danger from nearly a year ago.
It is will now to the vote.
A history of almost twelve years since the full of consuelos cancillería, delaying tactics, hopes, the need for staff, but also of placebos for those affected, tenacious defence of old rights vis-à-vis the citizens are not looking for other than their rights.
As you know, the issue is very complex and affects some 700 people who work in more than twenty-five Italian universities.
If reform and change the Italian legal system, as has happened to the personal university, we do not believe that the Commission can intervene at a time when all European citizens enjoy equal access to all professional categories.
The injustice lies in the fact that two people who carry out the same work, working hand in hand, do, however, with different salaries and under different conditions.
Worst of all, in my opinion, is having to warn you that a favourable judgment can do not constitute more than some words reconfortantes and will not lead to any real change in their lives.
I would remind the Commission that I hope will respond to what the Court ruling in the case of allué, expressed as follows: "The present dictates that is contrary to Article 48 (2) of the Treaty of the EEC to the law of a Member State does, in any case, the duration of contracts in the work of the foreign language assistants to a year, with the possibility of renewal, if not in principle applies that limit to other teachers'.
Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
We still have jobs today, as has been seen in this discussion, too many cortapisas, too many obstacles to the internal market, and not just in this case.
The debate has completed?
(The President cut the speaker off.
And I propose a minute of recogimiento.
? Are there any comments?
I support the proposal by Mr Ceyhun, and that the Council would be very grateful if you could clarify its true intentions to present a new proposal on this matter.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group considers this important event that we believe that it would receive suitable treatment in the form of a matter of urgency.
Galeote have just outlined. I have the impression that you joins these reasons, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understood.
Madam President, for some time now we discussed in this Parliament the issue of sanctions on Iraq.
It is urgent that we hold a debate before introducing the amendment proposed by the British authorities, and that the Commission pointing out quite clearly what the rules must be observed in this respect.
(A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving the mutual assistance in criminal matters, particularly in the field of the fight against organised crime, the laundering of products of infringements and crime financial matters (10213 / 2000 - C5 ­ 0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).
Statements come must be followed by specific measures to proceed to follow, however, preventive seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime.
The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot remain in the hands of a single agency specialised, subject to the control of national governments.
Furthermore, Article 8 of the draft convention limited solely to the essential interests of the reasons for the refusal of assistance which could invoke Rule required.
First of all I would like to congratulate Mr Marinho for the work he has done and I would like to say that, actually, attempts to combat organized crime must enjoy support and attention.
Trace, pursue, condemn the laundering of dirty money of terrorists and arms dealers and drug, but of course I do!
Our task is to proceed to the follow-up, however, preventive seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime.
All these points are covered in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I am confident that Parliament will approve these amendments.
In my view, the establishment of these initiatives is progressing in a way that can ignore the protection provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
However, in reality, this is not simple.
Finally, Mr President, the PPE Group supports the compromise amendment which we have reached with Mrs Roure on the activities of lawyers.
The second measure, the second instrument, is the harmonisation.
That is a Portuguese initiative that have praised several previous speakers.
And that was the subject of the joint meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council and Ecofin Council last on 17 October.
The best way to strengthen parliamentary control and judicial control of Europol is the full integration of the Europol Convention in the legal framework of the European Union.
A step in the right direction that the European Parliament is trying to provide for a long time is the creation of a provisional unit of judicial cooperation.
This is the sense of guarantees, i.e. to advance this aspect of civil liberties.
The European Parliament is the Community supranational body able to establish this relationship, and with this intervention I propose therefore to support this right by supporting our rapporteur.
Only when the institutional model and the rules that will govern the European area of justice is clarified, it will be possible for citizens and for Parliament to give an opinion on each of the measures proposed by the Council.
For this reason, Europol is a logical step in the process to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice, by strengthening the fight against organised crime.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt deserves to be congratulated on the excellent report he has presented, in line with the decisions taken at the Tampere Council.
But given that Eurojust, it raises the coordination of national tax and the magistrates to fight against all forms of serious crime - and here I agree with the approach of the rapporteur - a broad concept: it is not only speaks of cooperation for the crimes purely transnational, it also talks of cooperation for the suppression of criminal activities.
We shall have the opportunity, from 1 January 2001, the provisional unit adentrarnos in this, but the Commission wants to have a debate on what should be the final of the Eurojust unit.
Each party sincerely held its position, so I believe, without indulging in clashes rigid.
The problems encountered with the expenditure not preocuparon excessively to the Committee on Fisheries, although gave more attention to other matters.
It is totally unacceptable that we have no clear objectives and we can measure the results, something that would not happen to any other institution.
The second point: in the field of hierarchy in the power of the planning of payments has come here to intersecciones unacceptable, Commissioner.
I would like to stress that that played a positive role for a number of problems.
It is obvious that work in consortium does not create any duality in the joint financial responsibility.
Consequently, we have really acted to recover these 3.4 million, and we can say that we have achieved more than 90%.
? Are there any comments?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after nine months of work and lengthy forcejeos in search of a consensus, we now have on the table a draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I hope that, even today to be limited to give its support to this letter, this House will make clear indubitablemente over the coming weeks, which calls on the Council the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility of recourse to the European Court of Justice.
This position joins, as you know, the adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Biarritz, in that they themselves adopted unanimously, and without reservations, the Charter, and so I can only invite you, on behalf of the Council, to follow this position, but by making them some arguments.
But above all is the strength of its content, so that the Charter, I am sure, will take time.
For its part, the European Trade Union Confederation has been able to condemn what it considers gaps, such as the lack of reference to the right to a minimum wage, for example.
However, various personalities, and especially the members of the European Parliament, have proposed to include an explicit reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, which already referred to the Convention on Human Rights.
Our Group unanimously supports the single charter with the exception of the British delegation.
The European People's Party calls in its entirety and unanimously by the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the Treaties as soon as possible, so that also has the force of law directly to the people of the European Union.
They have shown that it is possible to treat the European Affairs in an exemplary way, a new and much better than the intergovernmental conference, given its work with great democratic and open, transparent and that makes the participation of citizens.
The right to health, social security, to housing, the minimum wages are non-existent or only to the order of solidarity.
Fourthly, the letter - and I think this is particularly important from the principle of the indivisibility of human rights of citizenship and fundamental rights of political and social order.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Charter is simply the umpteenth demonstration of the capacity of the Union and of our Member States to increase the texts vacuos, declarations of intent.
The representative of the Commission in the Convention of Torino legal significance attaches to the document.
Since the time of the market, when the Europe of rights perhaps has finally reached the concept of citizenship in the European Union is a relatively new concept.
The Charter is drafted, in fact, a text which can have a binding.
I note with pride that a representative of my parliamentary group in my country, Gunnar jansson, had an important role in the drafting of this Charter.
As I said last night - and I shall say today - throughout the Union there are many shortcomings in this respect and, sometimes, with our forward by developing police and judicial cooperation, we overlook the importance of ensuring that the innocent victims, are not passive collateral damage from a war crime.
Madam President, the European Parliament's draft resolution on the Charter of Fundamental Rights is based on the same ambiguity that the work of the House.
The Italian Constitution provides, for example, the limit of good conduct; the Convention provides for the limit of the rights of others, of public order.
Mr President, today in the vote on the 12 we will conclude a process that began in 1984 when this Parliament approved the draft Treaty on European Union, where it was the request of a bill of rights, a process that we are continuing in 1989 with the resolution of the Gucht.
The Charter is to have the effect it will have to be or not in the Treaty.
It must be welcomed with fear and not, as he seems to think bondi.
It seems that the century which ends, with all their struggles for the emancipation of social classes disadvantaged, has been unnecessarily and not taught us nothing.
The Charter fills a gap in the law and strengthens the protection of individuals with regard to the atrocities of the police, the European authorities to combat fraud and the authorities to ensure that competition.
I do not understand the dissent of whom the motivates because the Charter does not everything which I would like to see included.
Mr President, I shall continue where was Mr Gahrton.
The third point I should like to make concerns the rights of citizens of third countries.
The Council of Europe has, in addition to the Court of human rights, with a great deal of experience in such forms of control, we can take.
In view of the text of the Charter we are to approve today - I hope for a large majority, it is clear that with our Charter are going to achieve a more extensive protection and also more up-to-date of fundamental rights, which would of course accession to the European Convention on Human Rights.
That is why we need to go further.
I think it is important to bear this in mind if we are to achieve the necessary support of the citizens of Europe to the letter.
After its adoption by this Parliament, the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be my guide for analysis of this report and as far as my personal and intellectual means and resources to colleagues that I am facilitate permit, I shall make an analysis right by law, country by country of respect for the Charter in the fifteen countries of the Union.
Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission would like, first of all, to join the intentions of Mr Moscovici, and to highlight the essential contribution that the Members of the European Parliament have contributed to the debate, to the Convention, in particular the role that Mr Méndez de Vigo has played in the Praesidium of the Convention for the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I will not more than to some of the most salient points of this debate: firstly, Mr Morillon.
The Convention has chosen to include fundamental rights inspired by the various instruments of the Council of Europe, in the treaties, in the constitutions of the Member States.
The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the following reports:
In the current state of affairs, it is also our Parliament to say to the Turkish people that there are currently three conditions for membership.
As a result of this, the European Investment Bank is one of the last ports of refuge of banking activities in the world is no salpican waves of social debate.
That is why I have taken good note of the suggestions made by Mr Morillon in relation to the conditions for the accession of Turkey and deserve the greatest interest.
I am pleased to be able to announce that the Turkish Government has accepted this association between both as a basis for our future cooperation, so that we can justified hope that we will achieve precisely the objective, which is intended to support with our policy to reformadoras forces in Turkey, give new impetus to the process of reform and make progress with a view to the desired accession to the European Union.
The most important thing for me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey's accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to reformadoras forces of the country and promote their development.
This text is waiting for its opinion.
What now the intention is to give an impetus to the scene of a future accession.
However, I would strongly urge Turkey - I do not know what will be the result of the vote - also to take this issue seriously.
The European Parliament will play its role in the promotion of relations with political parties, NGOs and the press, in addition to develop their sensitive and sometimes tirante relationship with the Grand National Assembly.
Mr Morillon, his report is, in my view, absolutely realistic and responsible.
On the occasion of his visit to Turkey in March at least mentioned by name the problem of the Kurdish population, as it has done today.
Consider that Europeans will lead to the Turks, and I quote, "to a radical change of their customs and their mentality" reveals at the same time a great naivety and a great sufficiency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing today fills me with concern.
Recommendation (A5-0325 / 2000) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the adoption of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (4487 / 1 / 00 - C5 ­ 0570 / 2000 - 2000 / 2233 (AVC))
In any case, in the coming times in which we will be debating the computer power, we realise that we need a broader control, and therefore more garantizador in person.
Recommendation Duff / Voggenhuber (A5-0325 / 2000.
We point indicativamente.
Rights covered by the Charter are already part of the national constitutions and are defended by the national parliaments, next to the peoples and their cultures.
For example, Article 19 1, which states that: 'to prohibit collective expulsions, "does not specify that this ban can be suspended in the event of war or the serious disruption of public order.
We are going to give a brief explanation of these three objections to order.
The right of a government to leave aside arbitrarily their constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny.
But, I repeat it today, we have every reason to be proud of the conditions under which we have completed this important stage in Europe.
A society that only knows, not rights and duties, becomes a selfish society.
It is our priority to combat the affirmation of fundamental rights is materialice in political elections.
Despite the fact that the Convention method is interesting and fruitful to establish a basis for the text, seeking a broad compromise, nothing justifies being deprived of the European Parliament, which embodies the representation of the European peoples, of the possibility of amending, to enrich the text.
This Charter must be improved, and our Parliament must propose a strategy to its updating and its enrichment.
Therefore, the Charter is not should decide and proclaim at the Nice Council, but that the summit should be to promote a European debate on the same.
Fortunately, the prevailing tendency of national governments seem to indicate the way of common sense, namely the acceptance of the Charter with a purely political scope and non-binding.
Created as "Assembly 'for the Cologne Summit, the autoproclamó' convention ', a name that unfortunately reminiscent of 1793 terrorists and implications of the French Revolution materializadas by another Convention.
In return, the method used, the exclusion and proclaimed the ambiguity surrounding the very nature of this text cast a quite stark light on the new efervescencias totalitarian operating at the heart of the process of European integration.
Fortunately, the European Parliament does not yet have in this field more than an advisory role, while waiting for a full implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty, but it is the way to exercise it in the wrong direction, slowing down the right decisions.
On the other hand, there are differences in the procedure.
It was a century ago, and after making retrocediera, something is now in force.
The last thing we want is that the single market to allow criminals into the single market through the back door and unseen.
And we also support the future creation of a Convention which facilitates the fight against organised crime and money laundering, as well as the various measures proposed to achieve these ends.
Indeed, it creates a provisional unit, made up of a representative of the courts or the police exercised by a judge of activity in our fifteen Member States.
Mr President, as a member of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee, dedico intense attention to the draft accession of Turkey.
It is not acceptable the role of Turkey in Cyprus.
However, we support the rapporteur's criticism of the required an assessment on the granting of loans from the EIB and that there are shortcomings in matters of transparency and democratic control of the activities of the Bank.
Turkey, with all its differentiation, has always been and continues to be an integral part of the European reality.
Turkey ’ s accession to the European Union has become more than ever, a subject on the agenda.
Mr Morillon says that Turkey must take care not to see the European Union as a "Christian Club 'exclusive that wants to exclude it.
Turkey will be a fully democratic country when learn to live with its past, just as the democratic Germany learned to live with their own, and we also call on it.
With regard to the authorities in Ankara have understood that the status quo is unacceptable for Europe and the rest of the world, will be able to make significant progress: the island can be reunited and tomorrow, we will provide a global regulation fair, lasting and in accordance with international law.
The truth, why not include all of this in the report of the European Commission?
This is the balanced framework in which we will pursue resolutely with our action to encourage the rapprochement between the Union and Turkey.
If we tackle the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU - please listen well what I say: if we address the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU the project that we are discussing today will not start; it is as simple as that.
Furthermore, it is also the reason for our insistence that it will make an assessment of the first five years of implementation of the Barcelona process, so that in Marseilles, precisely, we are in a position to establish guidelines.
However, we have managed to keep the dialogue, and sometimes on sensitive issues: stability, terrorism, migration, human rights, for example.
In addition, the Council has made an effort, in particular since 1995, by giving the Mediterranean, the most important means, to the extent of the challenges of the partnership.
This is, in fact, a matter of extraordinary importance, and I say this also in my capacity as a central.
Mr President, as you know, in English, which says that, when the star does not appear in a role, as a representation of Hamlet without the first enterrador.
We want a pooling of policies on issues relating to the single market and agree to introduce the cumulation of origin, together with the regional free trade agreements to all partners to maintain free trade relations between themselves and adopt the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
We have learned with satisfaction that the Commission is prepared to give new impetus to the Barcelona process.
I have highlighted these aspects in them because we need to find the key to relaunch the process, and to all of this we must add the extension of the political agenda of Barcelona.
Therefore, our priority must be to ensure that peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we have to make every effort for the sake of this cooperation and for the funds committed to be applied effectively, depending on the ­ say selfish generosity of the European Union.
These are important issues and specific, I should like to raise, and I would like to thank Mr Brok, who has authorised just before this debate that the Presidency and the Commission will be able to discuss these issues.
The world is going towards globalisation unstoppable and in this context it must be organised in large blocks to act as protagonists in the great scenario of global competition.
It is disappointing that the Mediterranean countries have called for only barely a quarter of 4.7 million of appropriations for the MEDA I programme, which expired in 1999.
It is positive for the proposal for a new impetus which the Commission has made and we agree entirely with the two priorities which has marked out by Mr Patten in your speeches and reiterated here this afternoon.
It is a wake-up call to the European Union to play a more active role in the Mediterranean area that historically and culturally enriqueció engrandeció and our European continent.
However, even more serious, at the same time, in this House we exchanged calmly sometimes divergent points of view, they are still killing more Palestinians.
The reconstruction aid to
If, however, not in December we provide the means for implementing this regulation, today we had a debate devoid of content.
It is a complicated procedures, but we do not want close our eyes, and I hope that the Member States do not do so, given the role played in this.
The media in the region have been responsible for many times to the tragedy that has experienced and are necessary resources and entirely free to act in accordance with the rules that imperan in our democracies.
So I am lucky because I believe that Parliament has succeeded in achieving to overturn a situation that was originally was not so much because we had a continuous pressure.
I repeat again: it is absolutely essential to avoid unnecessary costs in unnecessary meetings.
However, we must not only look in Kosovo.
It is also unfortunate that a number of programmes have been put in reserve for action, the so-called "opførselsreserven."
In Feira, recognised the quality of potential candidates for accession to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process.
I reiterate the main priorities assigned to the CARDS programme: the strengthening of institutions, in the sense of democracy and the rule of law, economic development and reconstruction; regional cooperation.
The European Union was right to respond positively to the President of sanctions access to power.
The 6 November was carried out a initial examination.
What initiatives will take on the presidency of the Council, as requested by the European Parliament in its resolution of 16 March 2000, to play a more active role in order to ensure the total and absolute the implementation of the UN peace plan?
How can give new impetus to achieve this without the resolution of this conflict will know the close links that exist between the European Union and Morocco, and more especially between France and Morocco.
I can simply point out that France and Germany - not because I am speaking as President of the Council mentioned these matters in the course of a bilateral Summit in vittel, last week, and it was decided to set up a working group in order to remedy the problem.
At the same time, the Union continues to delivering a material assistance to these two important countries, through the intermediary of its various programmes, especially TACIS.
The honourable Member's question, therefore, gives to the Presidency the opportunity to dispel certain confusion.
I would add an additional precision: it is particularly in these two texts, strengthening of the penal framework to combat organised networks of smugglers.
In the report that the Council of Ministers Turkish adopted on 21 September as a programme of reform, appear on the part of the legislative changes: several projects included in the civil code measures to strengthen the effective equality of men and women in the areas socioeducativos; better to fight against the violence family; better condemn such violence through the creation of specialist judges in the field of family and, finally, to prohibit the possibility of reducing the penalty for the crime of honour.
Therefore, the Presidency does not have to give an answer on this issue.
Next week, there will be a meeting of the European Conference, the invitation from me, in France, that is to say with the candidate countries are announcing that I will come to.
Do you think that the model to be followed in the case of Austria, that is, the adoption of bilateral decisions majority, could be used in the future as an instrument for making decisions in the margins of the European institutions and to create a new institution or a new group, in order to avoid the rule of unanimity in the Council?
Cem. the terms of this response were reported to all the Member States.
The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici, which says that in order to make progress with the accession of Turkey to the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
We must bear in mind that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than just a fisheries agreement and that, as he knows, if we were to this agreement, in view of what that means, this fact could conceal a deterioration in relations between the European Union and Morocco.
Therefore, I must express my scepticism about the result.
With regard to the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, it should be noted that this principle should allow the strengthening of the cooperation of the Member States, but also for the protection of the rights of individuals.
Supplementary questions must be the others.
Furthermore, the Commission, in the communication adopted by the D 4 October 2000 on the supply of oil, the European Union says that it wants to submit, at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy savings and diversification of energy sources, which should help to improve energy efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
In this spirit, we, as a result of the vote on the resolution on the embargo, within the framework of the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, on 9 November, the appeal to the Cuban authorities to cooperate fully with the international bodies to defend human rights.
It is therefore to take NATO provisions that judged necessary so that they cannot happen again.
(The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.
When one offers money is unquestionably the privilege to establish clearly political objectives, and that is what the Commissioner has been doing.
This presence can give a perspective to the overall policy that we are.
If we see the region as a region of virtual powers policies cometeremos error.
Parliament must be consulted and informed regularly, and this is the second request is formulated the rapporteurs and to all of us will have to support.
The Heads of Government have also confirmed the Union ’ s determination to support this process with technical and financial aid.
It was Parliament supported the Commission's proposal to create the European Agency for Reconstruction.
As the House knows, we do not need to make an explicit reference to this in the regulation, despite the eloquence the Posselt.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m?
Leaders agreed a framework 2000 extended and updated of cooperation between Asia and Europe, which is the work programme for the decade venidera.
In my opinion these issues remind us of the important role that Europe represents in Asia, not only in economic terms and trade, although it must be said that one of the reasons for the recovery of Asia is that we have kept our word of maintaining open markets to our exports to Asia over the last two years.
I believe that we have made an excellent political declaration, but some problems remain to be solved.
We know that the Commission takes very seriously the ASEM and fully support to this institution, as far as that is concerned.
It is necessary to improve the existing mechanisms in the transposition of Community law, to increase the legal certainty and overcome their slowness current.
Why should promote the creation of new regional organisations, starting where there is Community presence, as in the case of the Western Pacific and the South Pacific.
This will help to the fisheries that really are sustainable.
I believe that the future of fishing in international waters depends on these organisations and all the efforts of the Commission, Commissioner, there are few and to defend the position of the United Nations, both in the Convention in 1982 and in New York, to which reference has been made here, we have a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing.
That is why I believe that the Commission has an important role in order to encourage fishermen to catch up, to cooperate with it and to propose a solution with which we all agree.
In addition, the Commission must take on all kinds of tasks relating to the negotiations that have to be carried out in the context of regional fisheries organisations.
Mr President, I have the same problem that Nicholson but, in my case is even more serious.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions recommended by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Sometimes we have to ask ourselves to what extent the crisis itself cyclical market is not caused by the action of the aforementioned speculative business structures, which will be ensuring that the control of the sector on the basis of their interests.
The extra aid Community raised in the report by Mr Garot is, in my view, contrary to all wisdom in recent years, when the Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we reform our agricultural policy.
We intend to introduce an insurance scheme and it is clear that it is based on social criteria, in my opinion, the rapporteur has done an excellent job, which shows that the administration is much at stake when pursuing a purpose clearly defined, as is the case.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those companies with integrated production, not participate in this mechanism, preferring systems that are already: savings, individual loans, compensation fund.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say in advance that I welcome in principle the Commission proposal to set up a fund of regulation, and also in the context of the Austrian agriculture.
I thank the rapporteur for his report.
I understand that it wants an organization of the market for intensive livestock farming and the collapse of the agricultural policy when it is linked to the land, when it comes to an extensive production.
There is already an organisation of markets and we should not make the mistake of to call into question the existing organisation of the market, since in general terms surte the desired effect.
In view of the Commission is fully justified that only require greater rigour to farmers who participate in the substance of the regulation, since the end of the day, they receive incomes stable to change, so that those who are not join do not receive any compensation.
(The sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m.)
The appeal from the value added tax represented the 36% and traditional own resources amounted to 15% of the total.
Another element of the reform which corresponds fully with one of the key priorities identified by the Court is whether to attribute greater importance to the measurement of the results and the action within a framework of allocation of resources to be consistent with the predetermined priorities and objectives that are clearly defined and can be measured.
It is good that this is the case and I would like to thank you very much, Mr Karlsson, like the members of the Court of Auditors and also to their services, and to provide support to the reform of the Commission in its report.
In this context, given its proximity, I would also like to point out that, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, we have proposed an amendment to the Treaty to enable us to create a European public prosecutor responsible prosecuting fraud to the detriment of the Community's financial interests, I sincerely hope that the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice is not limited to take note of the proposal or desecharla without more, but it is discussed seriously.
The reality, as the describes the annual report, it is rather disappointing.
The many errors identified is too high to provide this guarantee.
The amount earmarked for activities of planning has fallen short of EUR 240 million.
It also assumed that the Court of Auditors' report would be a little easier to use and that it would give some clear recommendations, for example, one or two clear recommendations for Chapter.
In 1995 was a convention on the protection of the economic interests of the European Union.
The Commission and the Member States should contemplarlo from this angle and use the results of the report as a tool to improve their performance in the management of the finances of the European Union.
I know that this report and the role of the available to embark upon the European Parliament in the context of the discharge will help to increase the vigilance with regard to the Community expenditure.
And at this point, Madam President, I would like someone callarme and hope that Council come here.
The Court, as well as other years pointed out, not exactly where there have been failures.
Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union is about and the Court of Auditors' report makes it clear that it is still has to make a hard work in the applicant countries.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently reached agreement with the Court of Auditors for the information that we receive from the Court of Auditors in advance with absolutely confidential nature and also agree that the mantendríamos effectively in silence.
I would also like to address the Council and ask why no progress with regard to Article 24 of the financial regulation.
It may be a bit of common sense of the European Union to contribute to the resolution of the problem and to put in place to George Bush's history it deserves! - to the dustbin!
We must not look for scapegoats, or in our institutions and in our Member States.
Firstly, with regard to the procedure for the presentation of the annual report to Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control, I am pleased to hear the reassurances Members in the sense that the situation this year is more satisfactory than in previous years.
But we will have the opportunity to discuss this.
It is important, from the point of view of taxation, we mention everything that we mention.
Ladies and gentlemen, as must have noticed, the final part of the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors has suffered the consequences of the intrusion of a virus malhadado between his speech to this House.
Some amendments, such as 1 and 18, relate to issues that affect mainly the United Kingdom and it must be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, popular or the Greens, have defended with great passion and have been approved by the Committee on the Environment.
Mr President, in March of this year we adopted the directive on the funicular intended for the transport of persons.
We believe that we should not do lie on the manufacturer's trade obligations laid down in the legislation on the safety of products.
We have heard the justifications in favour of them and also to repeat the arguments in favour of the sector we have already heard in the Commission.
That should be enough with the seller report the buyer on the nature of the products and on the meagre data are available on them.
Finally, a question to the Commission with regard to Article 4, in relation to European standards and to the question of whether these rules must be made public.
I am pleased with the exceptions which are included for the establishments of institutions and charitable organisations of profit, and without wishing to articles which are marketed as second-hand goods in mercadillos or by private individuals.
The reliability of the safety of products and the assistance after-sales are a more added value for the European label in a particularly difficult time and decisive.
When in another context, we ask the Commission to submit a proposal on the safety of services, it is incomprehensible that now intend to regulate jointly aspects of services, rather than waiting for the Commission to present its proposal, because it can provide the problems of demarcation of the scope of the different rules and legal uncertainty will increase over time.
I would like to say a few words to the main aspects of this proposal.
In addition, we have now provided for the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular, to the candidate countries: the simplification of procedures to introduce emergency measures at Community level, so that we can intervene quickly following the opinion of a regulatory committee.
This new requirement not involves no substantial additional responsibility in the case of this type of shops.
Replacing the word "producer" by "provider" as proposed in Amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, there is no definition of service provider in the directive.
Although the Commission is in favour of the creation of a network, the sooner this point will have to be agreed between the Member States.
Certificate always said can be used to provide evidence, but cannot be regarded as such as a test.
Having explained in detail the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 34, 36 up and part of Amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21 and the first part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31, 35 and part of Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21 and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, because they constitute an improvement and clarification of the Commission's proposal.
Of course, to Mr Barón Crespo is if Italian Socialist cannot be part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment 12 and Amendment No 37.
As for the order of voting, I leave the decision of the President, and I would point out that, in any case, I am against the three amendments.
The Mediterranean non-Community countries are, of course, a particularly serious problems relating to the economic development regional disparities are constantly acrecientan.
With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, for the sake of a harmonised European policy on immigration, in addition to the legal instruments to guarantee fair treatment, which would create instruments of financial aid in favour of those young people who, having completed a cycle of higher studies or university in the countries of Europe, want to return to their countries of origin to start to exercise a profession.
I would like to highlight one factor, which I frankly decisive in this matter; the lack of equality in the field of employment.
Although late, the Commission presented the programme relating to the Community framework strategy on gender equality (2001-2005), which markedly away from the previous and, in particular, of the fourth action programme, which expires at the end of this year.
On the one hand, because it took account of various proposals for improving tabled by my group, on the other, because it stresses the need to examine the situation of women in the labour markets and inadequate access to the national systems of social security on the basis of statistics produced on the basis of data and representative broken down according to gender.
(IT) My party has serious reservations with regard to implement EU legislation to the sale of consumer products, as well as on the refusal to implement the concept of mutual recognition of standards.
Now understand and labour amendments offer the guarantee that these shops remain intact and will remain exempt from the directive.
Finally, Amendment No 15 leaves hands free to the Commission concerning the language regime of the Agency, what we consider to be very worrying.
The simplification of the decision-making procedures, the creation of the bases of operations decentralised (not only in Pristina, where it has taken on the meaning of its separation of Yugoslavia), the treatment of the dual structure between the management board and the Commission, may prove to be positive moves in the direction of tackling the great bureaucratic inadequacy of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
We are therefore voting against both the Commission's proposal as the report of Parliament.
I therefore think it is justified to adapt the existing Community legislation in this area.
Similarly, the fund offers the possibility of administrations to grant aid more or less hidden in the form of cofinancing by the Member States.
- (EL) Despite its serious shortcomings, the Morillon report is, of course, more advanced than the Commission proposal concerning the association of the European Union - ôurquía.
We have decided against.
Like the rapporteur, we must admit that Turkey has made progress in certain levels and that there are positive signs.
Since 1987 this House had started the path of recognition, and the approval of the present amendment shows the coherence of the Parliament in this debate.
The Union must make further proposals and consider enlargement to Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
This ulterior motives are unworthy of Europe and unworthy of Turkey.
For several years, as a member of the delegation for relations with Canada, I noticed the operation of one of these regional organisations, the opano (organization of fishing in the north-west Atlantic), the participating states in the region, including Canada, and all those who use in this place traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
It is not contentará until its fleet of gunboats enarbolando, flags of "ring of stars', monitor the implementation of its fisheries policies.
The important thing is not, therefore, to satisfy the desire for hegemony of the Commission and weaken the position of Europe, which would be in contradiction with a correct application of the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, following difficult negotiations was reached a result that is worth defending.
Thus, the aim of this proposal which aims to replace three directives on the incineration of waste is to improve the quality of air, water and the soil, the health of people, reducing emissions of pollutants linked to the activities of incineration and co-incineration and, above all, dioxins and furanes and of heavy metals.
However, I also think it is important to stress as novelty that now is not only a question of emissions into the atmosphere, but also of emissions into the water and the soil.
The proposal has been improved during its drafting.
The introduction of much stricter limits for NOx emissions for new plants, such as the co-incineration in cement works, is another step forward which will serve as an incentive for the reduction of emissions, despite the fact that the proposed standards do not reflect the best available techniques.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise - especially Mr Blokland - for having arrived a few minutes late.
In conclusion, this directive is an important contribution to the reduction of the harmful effects on the environment and the risks that they represent to human health.
The European Parliament is honrará, in the name of the fight against discrimination and exclusion and in respect of the responsibilities of each, to give a boost to the creation of a mechanism which will enable there to be specifically the essential principle of solidarity.
There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there are no detailed comparable statistics in order to establish a reliable what is in force in each country, which is where - and what works best, what the weaknesses are, etc., precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drawn up on the task of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Policy, it highlights the need to legislate, before the Community rules on the supplementary insurance of disease, and the Commission to draw up a Green Paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
Until now, this matter has been considered taboo in some measure.
There is a danger of due to the presence of serious risks with public health problems and the elderly can only employ a limited private insurance, which is incompatible with the social developments.
The second point of view illustrated by the initial intention of the rapporteur and shared by many colleagues, to promote the regulations and codes of conduct necessary to establish, between insurers, forms of mutual of costs - guaranteeing to all the provision of a good quality health care - and to prevent the risks of They develop discriminatory practices, as well as a selection of risks and customers.
I think it is absolutely wrong that the money will be the determining factor to be first in the queue.
The new proposal of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is right: first be drawn up an inventory of a Green Paper and then decide whether we need a directive or a recommendation.
Today, in the Netherlands there is a debate about the introduction of structural changes in the system.
This is the basis of which must be based on the Commission to produce an initiative and articulate stones of touch that they can become concrete guidelines for the health systems of the Member States.
Therefore, it is unlikely that the answer is a solution and absolute for all medical insurance.
I therefore believe that we should opt for the content of Mr Rocard's report, which I welcome, calling on the Commission to the provision of a service, a Green Paper which will allow us to know what the current state of insurance in the Member States and also to define the future.
Both are being developed on a model of three pillars: the State, the business and the private sector.
As regards supplementary pensions, the European Union has already produced a series of rules. What has been done through the drafting of a Green Paper on the basis of a draft directive.
Mr President, I should like to express my thanks and congratulations to Mr Rocard for his report, and to congratulate Mr Morillon.
This study will form the basis for a Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament to propose initiatives or measures.
With regard to the amendments of the Committee on Budgets, I can say with satisfaction that all have been incorporated.
We have supported the characteristic features of the programme, as are the treatment of the multidimensional phenomenon, measures on health, education, housing, consistency and complementarity with other related policies, as well as the participation of non-governmental organisations, and of the very people suffering from social exclusion.
This means that we must use the stages ascendentes cycle to restore the situation to a balance or surplus.
In this regard simply let me remind you that the Ecofin Council has asked the Commission that, as from next year, be included in the assessment of the stability programmes precisely this aspect of the long-term public finances in relation to the ageing of the population.
One of the positive features of the programme of the Netherlands is the special attention which lends - as I said earlier - the impact of the ageing of the population in the public finances in the coming years.
For that reason, the resulting budget for the year 2000, the German case, will give a position of surplus of one and a half the gross domestic product.
If we add to this the evolution of the exchange rate of the euro against the dollar, we had a clear negative impact in terms of inflation.
They are also in the sense of making compatible with a system of public distribution systems of private capitalisation and are also obviously compatible with support for the creation of investment funds to obtain specific tax benefits in the long term and which can help to deal with the problem of ageing.
The third principle that guides us, then, is the precautionary principle.
It should be remembered that are currently discussing regulatory several proposals, which will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism and therefore - I hope - the confidence of consumers.
However, this relatively low incidence is no reason to be satisfied.
Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday Prime Minister Jospin had not no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
There is the need to find clear explanations to the increase in the incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
The Commission's Food and Veterinary Office has already gives absolute priority to controls in the Member States in relation to the protection measures against BSE.
With regard to its security, let me repeat that there is already a large number of controls in place to ensure that animal meal not represent a threat of transmission of BSE.
Yes, though it may be difficult to believe, took four years to adopt a measure that I consider essential to the protection of public health.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I emphatically demand that the Council made public, finally, its opinion on the regulation on BSE.
In this situation, the only way to break the circle of transmission of BSE is the total ban on using meat-and-bone meal in animal feed.
In this respect, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
Policies need to change this to the really responsible for this crisis are penalised and precise decisions to enable us to take a first step in order to put an end to this dramatic crisis.
It would, I therefore revisarlos.
The labelling of beef which has been adopted, which is a minimum and labelling which entered into force, only two and a half months, not adequately to trace the origin of the animals and have banned the very late of specific risk material.
The public must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test to which I have referred.
At the time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did nothing or almost nothing, as their counterparts nor did nothing about the consequences of Chernobyl, nothing about the AIDS epidemic, nothing about the contaminated blood, provided for the same reason: not causing panic in public opinion.
The French ban will cause an enormous increase in demand, but the stocks of this products are limited.
Consumers have lost confidence to contain, and this phenomenon is necessary to generalise the BSE tests to cattle and sheep.
In the context of the Commission proposal now is far more important work to ensure that meat and bone meal will respond to the highest standards of safety.
Moreover, I fully agree - once and without setting a precedent with regard to the Members have said ladies Mrs Ainardi, Mrs Auroi and Mrs Grossetête.
Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, have a financial basis enough for us to carry out a sound policy.
We tackle it. The Mr Morillon?
Madam President, Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased to hear here, within this Chamber, that, whatever the cost, it is necessary to change the CAP.
We as we denounced at the time, here, with Jimmy Goldsmith.
The food must be a safe food to human beings.
It is exemplary that France has been rushed to take this step.
But, just to These are not aid!
For this reason, I am surprised that in these circumstances, to continue to be able to use or processing carcasses.
Has been recently published in the United Kingdom the Phillips report on BSE.
I would suggest that the European Commission also apply the precautionary principle with regard to the beef in France.
Today, because we know that we are still in the uncertainty, what are the scientific data, what are the measures to be adopted.
Moreover, I have heard all these proposals, I am not insensitive to them.
If the representatives of the Member States come and tell me that the legislation has not been implemented in its entirety, perhaps we should rethink the issue, but we will not do so because the scientists tell us that this is necessary, but because there are gaps in compliance with the law in the European Union.
The best way to hear us not invite us is not in any case, Mr Morillon.
The Commission considers that for the clarification and the coordination of these policies, readmission agreements play an important role and at the moment are currently under negotiation, the first Community agreements and readmission agreements with Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Morocco.
What proposals does the Commission in this area on the basis of Article 31 of the Union?
The President cut the speaker off.
During this period has been the aim to reduce the deficit in order to achieve a monetary policy more acomodante, lower interest rates and to higher growth.
I always say that the euro is introduced on 1 January 2002, the euro is already in our pocket; what we have with coins fraccionarias different, but because what we have in our pockets.
The limits laid down by Directive 92 / 72 will not be exceeded in the city of Athens, although it should be noted that there were no measurements in the middle of the summer.
Subject: public aid for the audiovisual sector in a seminar of the French Presidency on industries related to culture, a representative of the Directorate-General for Competition on the European Commission stated that the legal obligations of investment imposed on television networks constitute State aid by the fact that these investments are imposed with mandatory by the legislator.
This will be respected and protected?
However, this is not clear, since the new growth is very desigualitario and can be accompanied, as we have seen in the United States from some ten years ago, the persistent phenomena of insecurity, of exclusion, poverty, of ghettización URBAN.
The governments of the Member States have accepted this definition, it is also true that is too simple and commonplace.
The environment hostile being created, there are many who are left in the way and that are rejected.
Mr President, in this House is listening very often, like a mantra, the glorification of the European social model, of the social market economy must be against many with pride - I think - the savage model of the United States.
(technical ruling.
It is a huge amount.
In addition, they must be incorporated into all political levels.
I agree on the need for better understanding of the causes of poverty, support for preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, of relocations, rural desertification, hiperconcentración urban, with speeches innovative and concrete that involve the participation of social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of citizens.
There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in the fight against social exclusion and the role of the social and structural reforms.
This is a problem of legal nature, since, according to the wording of the Treaty, we can only the reference to social exclusion and not to poverty.
In my opinion, these proposals are a pragmatic response to your question.
But agree in the strategy does not necessarily coincide in the details.
If we define a clear and binding framework for the Member States, the various systems that have to meet such requirements must have a trial period longer.
Renewable energy will not be a panacea for solving this problem, but there is no doubt that, to a large extent, can help paliarlo and also to diversify the sources of energy and to reduce our dependence on hydrocarbons, which on the other hand, we would nothing wrong.
I repeat three of our demands.
The establishment of realistic targets certainly will serve to increase the confidence of the citizen in energy policy to be applied.
I believe that a vigorous policy in the field of renewable energy is a symbol for the Europe of tomorrow.
Finally, these agreements should allow European countries reality its contribution to achieving the objectives set in Kyoto.
It is regrettable that excluding any category that can contribute to the general objective of recovering energy from waste - whether it is the small-scale projects as if it is a part of the total calculation.
The conformación of biomass of peat in its fotosíntesis and production of vegetable waste is similar to that of the other biomasses plant.
I would like to inform Mr Chichester that off the coast of my people are instalando quickly windmills of wind in the sea, a project that undoubtedly will become operational in a very short time, so I would like to invite you to see it when it was put in place.
The controversy on the renunciation of nuclear energy, for example in Sweden and Germany, has revealed that if there are no alternative energy on the horizon, ecological practicable at a competitive price, the debate is doomed to failure.
For this reason, the Member States must have binding targets.
Therefore, I am optimistic about the future potential of renewable energy sources, provided that provide the necessary incentives.
I believe that we need to put much value continually to renewable energy sources in the place they deserve.
A fortísima rise in oil prices, undoubtedly, confronts us with greater crudeza before the problems associated with our energy dependence on fossil energy sources.
Therefore, we cannot accept Amendment 28.
However, in doing so, the Commission is aware that the terms used not prejudge its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single market for electricity.
In the Commission for the reconstruction of Tajikistan, where there are 25 000 widows, only one of the 26 delegates was women.
Despite the fact that the proportion of women has been limited, studies have shown that the participation of women in the peacekeeping forces of the UN improved relations with the local population and the moral general.
The report Mrs Theorin goes into this in detail and makes very specific repetition of the Group of the European People 's Party and European Democrats please be drawn in the sense of an official document.
From a political point of view, I think that Amendment No 19 can be interpreted as a defeat tactics or a step backwards tactical instead of a real commitment, which is not worthy of the cause of women.
Were held prisioneras?
In Portugal, where women are not had access to diplomacy until the "revolution of April 1974," demonstrated recently, in the case of East Timor and our ambassador in Indonesia, Ana Gomes, that the role of a woman and its sensitivity to the problems and the suffering of a people that faced a alone to fight for the freedom of 25 years can be ways throughout the world and, in particular, here in the European Parliament.
To date, are few Member States that have done so.
It is therefore necessary to take account of this dimension to chart the policies of the European Union in the future.
Unfortunately, not is to define the concepts and to make distinctions.
Conveyed, please, to the Council our protest.
They are people with different experiences; experiences necessary in the way in which it exercises policy, especially in the management of the conflict.
The debate.
This brings me to my second point, if it wishes to regulate the sector, will have to look at a number of aspects.
In recent weeks I have heard that there is a great deal of interest both on the part of the international trade union as circles of some national trade unions.
Claim against two. Then you agree with a salary for housewives, home?
The makes life easier for many families and favours the equal opportunities.
Often, in this draft joined two or three families to jointly put a person.
We had here in the plenary of this first part-session in October, while the debate was held on the situation in Yugoslavia, when we have the reaction of the Serbian people, courageous and immediately, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the lifting of sanctions.
With this, Europe has shown the vitality of its civilisation, within the framework of the history of the world, and their ability to creative imagination policy for its future development.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources, through the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
I must say that, listening to me, impresioné much for the way in which you controlled such a difficult situation, and at the same time for his determination.
The next arreglará in the Minutes, Mr Watson.
Access to documents and information on the activities of institutions enables citizens to control of the governing bodies of the EU and stimulates greater efficiency.
I believe that a fifth amendment important is the annual report that especially should examine the documents that need to be kept secret or which, at least, are kept secret.
This issue is ambiguous, and it is also possible to enter and remain in place more restrictive rules, which is why we have tabled amendments on this point, among others.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs rejects the idea of exempt of transparency, automatically group, and in the documents relating to the foreign affairs and security.
If we want the rights of citizens are really effective, we need to these places of new staff specifically prepared that they lead to people seeking information through the complicated maze of institutions.
These are important to achieve a internal advertising.
I am pleased that Parliament has managed to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs good piece of work.
Mr President, the access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy a good reputation.
If so, is committing a mistake, because it is the credibility and reliability that is the European Union for the citizen.
Documents are much today, and we would like to ensure that there is a the widest possible access to many different types of documents from the most varied ways as possible.
Mr President, the Commission's position on public access to the documents can be seen in the internal handbook that was sent on 11 October to employees of the Commission to report on how to manage the requests for public access to documents presented by the European Parliament.
This provision must be eliminated or, at least, enlarged to include the consideration of evaluating the interests of the applicant.
The normal way in which is developing cooperation at international level with the rules of the game and uses of diplomacy, that is to say that everything is carried out with the smoke-screens reductions, there is no point in the modern cooperation which has developed in the EU.
We must not confundirla the role of the European Parliament or in the future interinstitutional agreement.
I believe that it has taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of citizens to information and knowledge.
However, it is not the only, whom I thank, many thanks are due also Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen of the PPE-DE Group, which has been the de's proposal under the stricter application Hughes procedure.
Transparency must set itself up as a basic pillar of all the activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente in itself for the consumación of transparency.
The European Parliament calls, then, that the European security and defence policy is introduced in the future in the structures of the European Commission.
When addressed Parliament, on 3 October, President Prodi referred to the institutional triangle evocó and that in a European system based on checks and balances, the flow of the operation of each institution contributes to the common interest.
I must admit that the great challenge of this regulation is the precise definition of what are documents.
I would like to stress that, at the time, practically, the Commission can accept all the amendments, such as the 9, 18, 21, 23, 25, partly, the 26.1 F, 28, 35, 38, the 40.1, the 40.6, the 41.1, 42, the 43.1, 47, 49 and 52.
Sometimes we would like to vote in favour of the proposals made by the Commission, and this requires effectively that Members should have access to the list of amendments that the Commission can support and the list of those that do not want to support.
The funds themselves the credit institutions
Finally, and most controversial, the Commission made a strong call for the use of a fast-track procedure in order to implement this legislation.
These amendments substituyen several other proposals in the report which will probably be rejected in the vote and then we will be replaced by these new amendments resulting from this consensus.
The President, in view of the excellent vote of support for this report and given the Commission's response to this morning, it is obvious - if you look at all the parts on which we voted - that, under Rule 69 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, we should postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution to be fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, I am sorry if I said that the PPE-DE Group also requested that the vote be postponed, but their coordinator was approached me and told me that they also wanted to postpone the issue until the session of the November II, instead of voting now.
The reason why I would suggest that the vote is aplazáramos that - as pointed out by Mr Goebbels - this is a very important issue.
I do not know how much it costs the roll-call vote, but it is without doubt of hundreds of thousands of francs, or Belgian francs, of our budget.
I know that in France, have been slaughtered entire herds and do not think that this is the best way forward.
The removal of animal meal in feedingstuffs for all animals, not just in the cattle and sheep, but also the pig, poultry and fish,
It is unacceptable for that.
Will the provisions such as consumers and farmers tranquilizarán, you will hear the message of solidarity that we wish to convey.
It is necessary and urgent to go further: to promote a change of the common agricultural policy.
The ban on the use of animal meal in feedingstuffs for animals is only the first step in this direction.
We regret that, on the contrary, that the amendments tabled by our Group were not adopted.
I believe that it would be sensible to reduce the working hours of those who work in businesses that pollute.
I shall insist again on the fact that the generalisation of the exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead us to acomodarnos to the production of such waste.
Indeed, if, for example, had more pensions enough to live, would have less poor.
The report raises a budget of EUR 100 million over five years to reduce poverty.
I give my unreserved support to the proposal to set up a Luxembourg process bis in the area of social exclusion, which includes guidelines and national action plans.
In fact, the report calls for qualitative and quantitative indicators set of social exclusion.
The present proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is complying with the Council's request to present "for June 2000" a "initiative for cooperation in this field '.
Mr President, I abstained on a very specific reason: this report, in my view, has not been done, from an ecological point of view, these advances which I hoped and auguraba.
I trust that this system is extended to all the cities of Europe.
Some proposals the European Parliament are unrealistic and cannot count on my support.
We must also be able to achieve a better in future be more known publicly the existing practice.
The people who have high incomes and are aware of the environment have the freedom to choose a cleaner energy within a free market, while the rest is still unable to choose.
The next item is the continuation of the first the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
These three reasons are as follows: first, because abundance in the process of consolidating democracy and the deepening of the requirement of respect for human rights, particularly in relation to the indigenous populations.
Mr President, in this debate, we would like to express, as well as has been said by other Members who have spoken before me have the floor, the solidarity and support of our institution in the Central American Parliament at a time when we are striving to maintain the priority in the field of external relations of the European Union with the countries of Latin America.
I do not have the reservations which have been able to express our esteemed colleague and friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the question of human rights.
Finally, in the dialogue with the authorities centroamericanas, the Commission is also by reiterating the importance to be given to the process of regional integration as an instrument for consolidating the democratisation and development in the area.
To cling to power has not hesitated to take the debate on the obsessive "marfilidad", causing a wave of hatred and xenophobia: to another abroad, the original Burkina Faso, or the maliense, and yet there are many who are working and living in the territory of Côte d'Ivoire has been for many years.
The establishment of a real democracy in the Ivory Coast cannot be done without the creation of an independent committee of inquiry of the crimes committed and without the commitment of official do to respect human rights and civil peace.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is relative when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which needs to be given time to time, but I believe that there is no possible commitment to democracy and the question today for the Ivory Coast is the same as that arises, for example to Guinea, when we know that there are currently in prison and that there is a democratic system.
I shall conclude with the following question: dictatorships there, Mr President, just because there are people who are suffering, misery, do not have access to know, do not have access to knowledge.
It would be illogical that the European Union exigiera today the holding of new presidential elections in which could participate, this time, all the candidates.
This is in many parts of Africa more blending with the various religious and ethnic.
These elections must allow the representation at national level of political parties that were excluded in the presidential election and compensate for this, even if only partially, the shortcomings of this first choice.
The situation in Burma.
They are carrying out a major offensive against the Shan people and against the Karen people and, as stated by the rapporteur of the UN, there is no sign of any dialogue between the SPDC and the National League for Democracy.
Therefore, we reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the Commission and the Council in this direction.
I hope to give priority to this issue as a matter of urgency, this Parliament will send a clear message to the people of Burma to its pressing situation is not forgotten and that we recognize that the situation in Burma is worse rather than better, and we are determined to try to do something about this.
It has been a long time achieved?
It is precisely in Asia is a danger that the economic reforms and policies are desacoplen, of that there can be economic progress and economic liberalisation without liberalisation in the political sphere and without strengthening the rule of law, although I am of the opinion that without a constitutional state that functions, trade and investment subsidies will have been lost in the long term.
Mr President, I agree with my predecessors in the speaking time on many points of what you have said today, because much of what is happening in Vietnam is not acceptable.
However, it is now says Human Rights Watch, to which you referred, Mr Swoboda, that Vietnam has given in the last time some steps to improve the situation in relation to human rights.
These highly secret documents provide us with a strange look behind the scenes of the policy of the Vietnamese administration.
The Commission is still convinced, however, that can only be a lasting solution to the current situation through a dialogue between the military regime, the opposition and democratically elected representatives of the ethnic minorities.
There are also clear pressure of the Vietnamese authorities to its own press have a regime of self-censorship.
The next item is the next item is the debate on the following motions for resolution:
Also requerimos that the EU give aid and assistance, not only in the Southwest but in all the areas that have been affected.
I would ask you all the support our resolution.
It is urgent that the Union is not limited to deploy actions of extraordinary when disasters have already happened.
The Commission has taken two initiatives in this respect.
Mr President, there has been a purely linguistic mistake to introduce one of the amendments in the joint resolution.
The vote on its postergación means postponing the mandate to the Commission.
(Parliament adopted the resolution.
The report of the fact that an increasing part of health insurance in Europe is covered by insurance supplementary health.
It seems strange that you now maniatar to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but that at the same time, ask a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and insurance doctors complementary.
At a time when the ageing of the population dramatically, it is crucial that we try to improve the health system for the people of Europe.
We could not contribute to this task.
Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of the fast track when it comes to implementing the results of the review of the Basle on capital adequacy banking.
In these conditions, such an initiative would rather the opposite effect to the expected imposing our obligations banking sectors without additional guarantees of compensation, despite the exhortations to this House, the Commission does not in any way to ensure that the banks of the European Union will no longer be subject to discriminatory treatment by the American authorities.
We must take care that Basle, moreover, that does not produce the banks would cause a second ballast a demand higher 'own funds.
In fact this first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach that has been given to these regulations on capital which reinforce the issues relating to the risk.
These are first thoughts on how we might achieve a legislative process to be controlled rapid and efficient within the current rules of the Treaty.
And, indeed, the time has come to recognise that the institution of European Ombudsman "" is sufficiently developed and has already given sufficient evidence of maturity to have a budget itself.
The EPP / ED Group supports the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the powers of the Ombudsman should be extended and the sooner the better, especially as regards the powers of investigation of the Ombudsman as laid down in Article 3 of the decision of 1994.
An Ombudsman is obviously limited by the rules governing the secret documentary but it is right that the citizens know that he or she, as the Ombudsman, can have access to documents to which they themselves have no.
The starting point of this report is the ombudsmann's recommendation to the Commission, in relation to the foregoing, enabling the candidates to access to their examinations already corrected in respect of the selection procedure, organised by the same.
We believe that the institutions of the Community should carry out its procedures for recruitment, and, indeed, all its procedures, with the maximum openness and transparency in order to avoid the suspicions of bias, injustice and administrative incompetence.
I am referring here to an amendment to the demand of the indisputable proof of the development of a test oral, for example.
Our colleague, Mr Bösch, has already explained briefly here the amendments that have been made in this report.
Having made sendas questions to the Commission on the management and organisation of the last internal opposition, received answers and detailed.
It is beginning to open up the process of government and to make it transparent.
First, the tests that are made by the Commission, the corrections are always of anonymously.
Of course was talking about July 2000.
VOTE
(Parliament rejected the proposal to postpone the vote.
In order to assess the directive on own resources of the institutes of credit must be sopesados carefully the various interests that come into conflict.
This was the idea of a European police college for the Member States of the European Union and for the candidate countries.
That is also the position defended by the rapporteur and that the European People's Party shares.
The social situation in most Member States of the European Union is such that, in fact, there is a need for cooperation between the different bodies of police beyond the borders of their own country.
It seems that the majority of the speakers so far considers that it is essential that the College has a permanent headquarters.
The umpteenth interim decision but not a regalito precarious, that the Council is usually do to this Parliament.
The rapporteur wants to be added to the prevention of crime, the provision of services, innovation and the border surveillance and also wants to change the internal security, so that it includes the maintenance of law and order.
Those were the ideals that anyone was proposed to us and the type of state in which they worked.
I welcome the possibility of levelling the standards of some Member States of the European Union.
Since the first thoughts on this dossier to be made at European level on the initiative of the European Parliament, the Commission undertook to Member States to put forward an action intended to develop what we consider a European police cimentada culture with the highest standards of ethics, respect for citizens' rights and freedoms and effectiveness in the fight against crime.
It is intended that the police academy develops above all from the perspective of intergovernmental.
Concerning the reasons, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
- (SV) I voted against the report on provisional establishment of the European police college.
No doubt many of our courts are very slow and ponderosos, and it is very difficult to act quickly on these issues.
Of course, the proposed regulation is not perfect, since it connecting with the Brussels II regulation ', which does not include children whose parents are separated, as well as children extramatrimoniales.
My own mother suffered a similar kind of separation and abduction 85 years ago, and even talk about it.
Therefore, what I would like to say that Parliament is in the action programme on the mutual recognition of judgments in civil - whose expect approval by the end of this year, the Commission is proposing to give priority to the first and the extension of the scope of the regulation, the Brussels II, and therefore of this regulation on the right to visit, covering without discrimination children of married couples and the unions, in fact.
We shall proceed to the vote?
Today, sport - and should - is closely linked to other economic sectors, such as, for example, the audiovisual industries or to the promotion and sales of sports.
What we need is an intelligent and flexible way to interpret the current rules.
It is strictly, an attack on democracy, however much we see things in this light.
That is why the Commission is waiting to receive a brief in response to your request for detailed information on the measures planned by the UK Government.
This proposal was presented by the Minister for the Economy in a statement made pre budgetary six months before the presentation of the complete draft budget in the spring of 2001.
Again, I believe that what was said by Mr Simpson has been of great assistance to reassure us on the probable intentions of the UK Government.
The congestion are not only a waste of time, not only generate high costs, but for the environment are all a problem, and I therefore believe that, if the British Government is assigned to really money to solve these problems, then receive something that all of this, above all the citizens of Europe.
We are virtually the only oil producer in the European Union and in spite of this we are suffering the higher prices for petrol and diesel prices higher as compared with any other country in Europe - in Britain we pay 1,20 GBP per litre of diesel.
This point on the agenda remains closed.
The European Parliament needs to know that is on their side, and I propose that, once again, to express with a minute ’ s silence our solidarity and emotion.
Madam President, is to support it fully, since I am one of those who have asked for the inclusion of this point.
We achieve some important progress?
The EU will deepen its relations with all the groups and also important will contact the new government of the United States as soon as possible.
The agreement on Prescott he himself had produced, how it is that not only Mrs Voynet, but I think most of the other ministers for the environment - and this is my last question to the Commissioner is rejected?
It is to be feared that has been lost momentum and American negotiators and change in may have to start again.
This time the forests have been major obstacle.
A part of the soil of the countries of the European Union will become the sea or desert as a result of continuous warming to which they are subjected.
The high level of wealth is and the price of oil products under.
I congratulate Commissioner Wallström for their efforts in the Hague and I wish you much success.
No doubt it was best not to agree to have a bad agreement, and in this case the American position was a position of rebates, totally unacceptable for Europe.
The climatic changes have major consequences in developing countries.
I repeat it in English: 'from being carbon forest turns to carbon sinks sources.
Only this credibility will enable the European Union encabece the position and the action in the COP VI "B" in Bonn.
We are going to have to make our own assessment of what happened and prepare documents to get in touch with the different parties and, of course, with the 'group of broad representation ".
Of course, the monitoring of the next COP6 or the continuation of the COP6 will the ratification of the agreement within the Union.
Before the European Council, Pierre Moscovici and myself will hold the next Sunday a ministerial conclave, I invited to Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, as well as a session of the IGC, on Monday, at the General Affairs Council.
The minimum number of Member States that were to participate was to limit the eight, the clause to appeal to the European Council, which is currently a genuine right of veto, be replaced by a right of knowledge.
One might regret, but I am obliged to make this observation.
The European Council also discussed the progress of accession negotiations, and therefore of enlargement.
The Lisbon European Council had approved guidelines to promote a innovative and competitive European economy.
Consumer protection is a growing concern of Europeans, for obvious reasons which do not require greater explanation.
We must prepare us for this unprecedented enlargement.
Unfortunately, the current text of the Conference is very complicated, very ambiguous and very long, with two protocols: However, despite this scope and complexity, and this is also very weak, it facilitates the simple answer to us serves the simple problem which we are suffering long ago.
(Applause)
One was that the states themselves candidates had to adopt and implement the acquis communautaire; that is the task that we share with us.
We appreciate very much the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we do not want confine ourselves to declamarla.
It is true that the text could be improved, and it can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
I find it unacceptable that a number of governments have been refused outright to consider the possibility of a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
You do not even want to introduce it in the Treaty and this is proof that this document, this exercise has had to leave aside.
We shall be discussing with a single vote thankless and in the WTO.
In view of the dubious prospects of success, I do not think it right bear the Intergovernmental Conference with another matter extremely complex and controversial.
Therefore make an urgent appeal to the French Presidency to ensure that the maximum effort to eliminate this gap, because it is extremely destructive.
In the field of trade policy, the Commission has drawn up a proposal which must be examined carefully.
Even in the previous Treaty were achieved some progress in the extension of this formula, also brought the absurd formula of codecision more unanimity on matters relating to citizenship, social security, the rights of the self-employed, and also the cultural policy.
The simple approach to this issue is, in itself, clearly demostrativo the failure of a policy of strengthening the links of mutual trust between the countries which make up the Union.
This is the situation in which we enfrascado for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody renouncing its plaything.
The experience of this year, forces us to say that the impetus should be given to the process of constitutionalisation of the Union after Nice and looking to the future of Europe should not be entrusted to the method, already exhausted, reserved for negotiation between the representatives of the governments.
As it has just said, Mr Prodi, if not adopted a rule on the majority, the decision-making is obstructs irremediably.
In our debate today is nothing was said about this aspect of the subsidiarity, but it is very important.
So we did, enlargement happened in 1995, came the reflection group who chaired rightly Carlos wensterdorp wine, Amsterdam and Nice and we are now going to have practically like, Mr President: giving round to the institutional issues, without solutions that will enable us to give way to a ambiciosísima task, which is that enlargement to 27.
Let us not add to provoke disappointment that the Nice Summit, if that Nice is, of course, it is fruitless, the disappointment caused by the peoples of our Parliament.
In the past we showed that this target was achievable and, as a representative of a Member State that has benefited from a transition to the planned accession, hopefully with a positive attitude towards an enlarged Europe and peaceful.
But we must understand that you, if you have the right of veto, we also have the other.
But it will also have to make a first transition for Parliament to be elected in 2004, because at least some Member States will join before the new Parliament elected in 2004 or during its term until 2009.
The President of the Council has dealt with the issue of closer cooperation and has said that it is moving towards a consensus on this issue.
Mr President, at first sight, Nice is the necessary adjustments and the still unresolved issues in view of enlargement.
If we had something of this mindset, if we were less emphasis on what is going wrong in this part of the world and pusiéramos more emphasis on what is going well, we would be more fortunate than we are at the moment.
Majority decisions to be taken in the Council should not only apply to goods, but also to other related issues such as services, investment, intellectual property and competition, paragraph 1 of Article 133 has changed in that respect.
The right of initiative of the European Parliament would open the way to the arbitrariness of political parties was over invading in this highly sensitive field.
Therefore, as one of you said, alluding to the American optimism and to the way in which the Americans speak for themselves, we should also stress what works and what progress.
I would also say that I do not think there is a problem between large and small countries.
We have worked very hard, but we are facing this old problem, and I do not think we can start a development for the action of a single country, because we are facing, once again, in the twelve of the fifteen Member States, to a few realities - national, political, democratic - very important.
Finally, Mr Védrine, you revealed a situation too tense and has also been talk of pessimism.
Will he take you in general, in addition, measures to enhance the security of appropriate ways to such a thing does not happen again?
In my opinion, we must take precautions appropriate - something that we have not yet done - to the guests of this Parliament can feel at home, without fear of possible threats to this end we must create the necessary technical conditions, both in terms of the organisation as from the security point of view.
Here, hospitality; here, hospitality and respect.
Thank you for your contribution, Mr Tajani?
The best tribute to Ernest de and to his memory would be to respect its message diàleg in Catalan: can we offer all this opportunity to the Basque people?
On the other hand, each can, of course, to express their views.
(B5-0550 / 2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, addressed to the Commission, on the political situation in Afghanistan and humanitarian aid.
When I speak of organisation I also say that, given the enormous efforts made by the European Union, it is logical that it also corresponds to the responsibility of the same.
Secondly, as you will see in the resolution the clear will of Parliament to base the security and defence policy on two pillars: the balanced civil crisis management and, in the event of failure, the military management, since both are complementary pillars.
Mr President, bearing in mind the delay and we also my obligations, I will try to abreviar the speech I had prepared.
These relations are plasmarán specifically in meetings between the North Atlantic Council and the copsi and the meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European countries candidate or allies.
Look, for example, what has happened in the Balkans, where it can be said that each has played their part to the full.
Also in this period we have kept to the United States fully informed of the progress under the title of the European security and defence policy, which is a sine qua non to the same develops in harmony, as is happening at the moment.
In the European Parliament was the second edition of the European Union's annual report on human rights on 13 December will be organised in Paris Forum devoted to human rights.
Such a policy, you say, does not have the ambition to compete with the Atlantic Alliance, which today remains the basis of the collective defence of its members, or create a permanent European army.
On the other hand, although I mentioned the figure of 100 000 military, this does not mean that ambicionemos overcome the objective set in Helsinki, but that we have a reserve in qualifications and in different specialities, which can be achieved to ensure that the 60 which correspond to the objective of the Council, beyond the operational conditions of their use.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer in a few words on the profound political sense, approved by a large part of our public, this new task, by means of which Europe is becoming a tool of political influence it lacked.
We are now facing the problem of ensuring that, when we talk about the consolidation of liberal democracy in Europe, we refiramos throughout the European continent, because in that consists of enlargement and the process of enlargement.
We need to integrate three ramales in a coherent policies: the Community, CFSP, including the ESDP, and national measures of the Member States.
Even with our laborious procedures of the Commission, we do not need a force of 60 000 soldiers in order to achieve our objectives.
We must therefore establish a matter of urgency a solution of humanitarian aid.
It is true that we do not agree with the cynical to say that it succeeds in Europe with a new game unworkable, it is true that the rapid reaction force will not be versatile in many situations.
The EU should not develop a defence system itself with regular troops.
Finally, I would like to express my group's concern for the increasingly worse situation in Afghanistan and to urge the Commission and the Council to do everything possible to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of the winter.
To put it simply: where, when and how it should act of the European intervention force.
They understand the terrible record of these two months' Intifada: "270 dead, the majority of Palestinians, and nearly 10 000 injured, often baldados for life.
That is why we also its relentless effort will serve to create an arsenal of weapons of mass culling extremely dismal.
Secondly, and contrary to what the previous speaker said, I do not know whether it would be possible and desirable that the European Union to do more than it does to the conflict and the escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, in the transitional period, they are in the United States.
Mr President, I shall focus this speech in dealing with Mrs Lalumière's report, which, in my view, is well thought-out and expresses clearly.
There is a political concept really and yet there is a common foreign and security policy.
The EU has only a problem, namely that until now has been unable to arouse the interest of the public by such measures, despite the fact that they are much more sustainable and effective.
Mr President, I will, of course, the budget; how it must be shared.
I say that, despite the enormous amount of apparent that guarantees on this matter have arisen miraculously in recent days.
We should work together and a coordinated. we should move towards a better policy acquisition of supplies to have a defence industry more efficient that offers greater value in return for the money.
Even those who question the usefulness of the decision, for example, of creating the so-called euroejército, must repair the important political dimension of this decision, and its influence in the cohesion of the European Union.
It has been so historic first the presence of a Minister of Defence in this House we have set aside the evening sitting, to give the impression that it is not too strong for our Members.
For all of them, a civil crisis management is a better preventive means that military solutions.
Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with a democratic regime not?
Therefore, Europe will not be a new alliance, as I have heard mentioned in an argument informed way of incomplete.
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
Given the scale of the task, be mandated to four committees and established a procedure unprecedented, with four reports parallel.
The whole of the measures proposed in the White Paper must agree to modernise and make all the effective operation of the Commission.
Therefore, it would be appropriate for the reform outside the occasion to limit its intervention only in areas that do not involve expenditure.
The differences of view that arose were not only of a political nature, but that reflected more cultural differences between the fifteen Member States.
The new internal audit service, under the direct responsibility of you, Mr Kinnock, the Vice-President responsible for reform, will be the main task of the analysis of the tasks and systems of internal control that exist within the Commission.
It has been a pleasure to work together and I believe that the process of crucial dealing with a reform of the Commission, which is essential for the future of the European Union, has had an in-depth and an additional wealth thanks to the participation of us four.
Can have expectations of transfer to other European institutions, the establishment of committees of services in the national administrations or to work in the private sector.
In this way, our constitutional committee recalls membership of an executive Commission strong, independent, effective, transparent and politically responsible.
As the Committee on Budgets consider that the introduction of activity-based budgeting we cause problems for the little visibility of spending and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament as a budgetary authority.
This will mark, obviously, the good will of this Parliament for bringing forward this reform with the Commission.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the four rapporteurs for the excellent work.
This is disgraceful if we take into account that the EU itself is the first supporter of the modernisation of economic life.
Mr President, despite the efforts of the rapporteurs, to support the work of the Commission, is that the recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts is not yet a global and coherent response, with a view to a policy of government and not only to better management of the institution.
This change in attitude should be translated into the transparency of the administration.
In my view, in the world, there is a structure which Journal a greater and more fundamental importance: 15 Member States and in the future twenty or more, an entire continent; the part of the world currently most industrialised tawny in the Union and through it, in the Commission, through its structures.
The change is never easy?
In so doing, however, from the Socialist Group believe that the current functioning of the Community public administration is quite effective.
The result is known, has indicated that the dedication and the competence of the many members of the Commission and its administration.
Many thousands of requests for more than a year projects have been waiting for an evaluation.
The debate, as we have seen, is not so much the principles, objectives or opportunity of reform, in terms of procedures, pace, timetable, mismanagement or possible unintended consequences of its implementation.
I would like to begin by informing the House that at its meeting this morning, as mentioned by Mr van Hulten, the College has adopted a proposal for an interinstitutional agreement to the establishment of an advisory group on basic standards in public life, as planned in the action 1 of the action programme of the White Paper.
Moreover, it is clear that such changes would only be possible with a modification of the Treaties.
The main objective is to achieve a simplification, to increase the transparency and strengthen budgetary principles, that is to say in particular exception of less regulation, fewer special arrangements incomprehensible and increase the efficiency and effectiveness in the budgetary procedure.
It is quite simply uneconomical according to the Commission that contracts for costs X is having to reimburse the costs for 20% and 30% and is often junten and check the comprobantes sums of very small.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5 0337 / 2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of the European Union's relations with the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission in these relations (2000 / 2051 (INI)).
These very particular aspects relating to NGOs.
Of course, that is not enough, but it must be able to save the cartoons on the shortage of our development aid.
We are once again this now, because it is a good framework in itself.
Mr President, I have again today in Mozambique, where the European Union has been responsible for a brilliant humanitarian aid after the disaster of floods, but, once again, the projects for reconstruction, to which we have already allocated money, are lagging behind in anticipation of the signatures in Brussels.
Given these realities, the need for greater involvement and greater efficiency in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment is unavoidable.
We now have a harmonised scheme to prepare country strategy papers, and cooperation programmes indicative in all developing countries.
Furthermore, the creation of the SEM not provided a solution to the continuing disparity between 8 voluminosos administrative resources.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the reason that I had a very special interest to be with you today in this debate on the first package shipping in the European Parliament, is that you are going to discuss three important texts, which are a first step in a crucial issue that recent events have put, unfortunately, the fore at the moment.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could afford, on the other hand, to discuss with the Member States an agreement on the basis of the proposals made by you, and to adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority if necessary.
The rapid treatment and specialist that has had result in the two Erika packages and six proposals generated an enormous boost.
The lesson that this Parliament must retain this morning is, undoubtedly, the maritime law lies in the world in a state of vagueness and we have to start the process of put in order.
We must give a clear signal that the waters and ports will not tolerate vessels that do not meet the standards.
For the small vessels, we adopted a position of compromise between the limit of 5 000 tonnes, raised by the IMO, and that of the 600, raised by the Commission.
These data should be made available to the European authorities, and port state, as well as the public interest.
The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, aboca to the need for a Community-wide framework for cooperation in the field of accidental pollution.
The cooperation at local level have been included in organizations for the protection of nature.
To amend the directive in the direction of greater rigour in their application, a harmonisation of legislation, particularly as regards the selection of vessels are subject to inspection and the scope of the various types of inspection, is clearly positive.
I should point out once again that there is the urgency, in which you insist.
I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, it is essential that the Council and Parliament again to reflect together on this.
The black box, a black list and everything else we believe to be excellent ideas and we fully agree with them, but I would like to highlight a few points.
With regard to this catastrophic situation anarchic and maritime transport, Europe has accepted the challenge and eleven months after the Erika disaster, the European Union will be in a position to announce that never any procedure has worked so quickly.
It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is opposed, in fact, to a high level of maritime safety.
In conclusion, regardless of the technical measures to be taken, one of the largest sources of uncertainty will continue in both reequilibre is not, in the area of the Channel and the North Atlantic, the exponential growth in traffic hipertrofia arising from the ports of the North Sea.
You honraría the current President of the Council that ordenara the situation in their own country.
Mr President, since the sinking of the oil tanker Erika have been put under political pressure a series of measures in order to increase the safety of ships in the sea.
Some ships hundieron Greek, without any more, Mr Gayssot, without which had storms.
Thirdly, when it comes to this type of report, I think that it is becoming clear that no links the relationship between, on the one hand, the supply of oil, and on the other hand, the fact that the use of fossil fuel still.
Therefore, we have to end the political courage to environmental our ambitions.
This means that, in this field more than in any other, our responsibility is great, and that we must, in my view, to silence any indication of institutional self-respect.
For example, in Finland is of the utmost importance that Russia to sign these agreements.
It is a question of tightening up the requirements for the construction of ships oil, the improvement of rules for the port controls and the increased severity of rules for organisations of inspection and peritaje of vessels, which is a consequence of this.
Mr President, today we are debating the maritime safety on the basis of three rapporteurs whose reports congratulate.
As regards these three new proposals on maritime safety, I should like to congratulate the three rapporteurs have shown in an extremely short deadlines that Parliament is very determined to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, controls, the rules of construction and it is intolerable that accidents similar to prevent produce.
Madam President, in the recent past several of marine accidents considerable consequences, especially those who were involved in the oil, have shaken our continent.
Greater 80% of accidents are connected with human error, but there are reasons for human error, which are the social order.
A Parliament or parliamentary has used the word 'traceability'.
The directive on port State control is designed to monitor compliance with international requirements and not to introduce new rules.
Amendment No 18 introduces the port state control because in relation to the rest periods of seafarers, although the implementation of the provisions relating to working hours of seafarers is already fully covered by the Directive 99 / 95.
I am pleased to see that the rapporteur has introduced in Amendment No 21 a reference to the regime of assessment of the conditions and we agree with the proposal perspective, however, it is necessary to adjust the wording to make it clearer.
Amendment No 4 and part of the 18 concerning point K "" are not acceptable.
I can assure you that if a shipowner intends to include a ship in these registers, following our proposal will have pensárselo twice.
The Commissioner spoke for 18 minutes, and during that time, mentioned dozens and dozens of articles, and has rejected the Commission's position.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a set of actions relating to the trans-European network of collection, the creation and the dissemination of statistics on the vencimientos of goods and extra intra Community (EDICOM) (COM (00) 0458 - C5 ­ 0401 / 00 - 2000 / 0201 (COD)) (Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs)
However, to withdraw the resolution, I am convinced that, with a view to the Nice Council, our Parliament would have done better to hear their voice devoting a specific resolution and different from the difficult and important issues of the Intergovernmental Conference, rather than to deal with them in the context of a single resolution which includes all the other points of the Council's agenda.
(given that stood up more than twelve Members is rejected, the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5 0337 / 2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of relations between the European Union and the developing countries, and the impact of the reform of the Commission on these relations (2000 / 2051 (INI))
I voted against to register my protest at the fact that the European Union still fails to intervene as should also in this area.
Despite the fact that neither the amendment of the current directive on the control of ships or the Watts report respond to real needs, give certain steps in a positive sense, that is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
Therefore, we regret that the Commission proposal has not taken up the idea of the creation of a genuine European supervisory body, following the model of the "coast guards" in the United States.
(EL) precondition for the safety of ships, for the protection of life at sea and environmental protection is the fight against the immunity enjoyed by the shipowners, the adoption of strict measures for the control of the situation of ships and the imposition of stringent penalties to shipping companies which violate the safety standards; similarly, improving working conditions of workers in the Merchant Navy, and provide them with the appropriate training, as well as ensuring compositions organic that respond to the growing needs of ships.
The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, has exactly the opposite.
The Erika disaster, in December 1999, is at the root of the emergence of the issue of maritime safety in the Community policy agenda and was under pressure from the European Parliament as the Commission proposed texts which we voted on today, almost a year after this disaster shipwreck.
The current compensation funds that have not been adequately equipped and this has become evident that in the case of the Braer disaster, in which the fishing industry in the Shetland Islands has not been properly compensated for their losses.
Madam President, I have already said that some years ago I had the opportunity to sail.
The rapporteur's proposals relating to the harmonisation at European level is entirely positive.
This is an important point because that refers to the classification societies of ships.
Rather, it would be a great success, for the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, Europe is not a rigid, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible Europe, close to the people and therefore based on respect for national democracies.
The fight increasingly open for power between many Member States muddies the possibilities to achieve a compromise.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU institutions to have effective.
In a week of the Summit, I personally have high expectations.
Nor am I in favour of linking automatically to qualified majority voting and codecision and also believe that any initiative to extend the powers of codecision must be taken on a case-by-case basis.
To amend Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend the qualified majority voting, currently in force in the Council for trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
In this way Parliament's right to influence prescinde observed silence as a tribute to the fidelidades partidismos, and the national governments and forgets its obligations towards the citizens.
I also voted against a text that calls for the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the future Treaty to be adopted in Nice.
It is a mistake to divide the Union into two groups, and that is why I cannot support the idea that a third of the Member States should go to the top.
Its new role has put an end to the neutrality of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Austria.
In this report there are many things that the Group of the British consevadores can support, in particular the emphasis it places on the enlargement of the European Union.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have supported the report on the establishment of a common European policy on security and defence.
But also against the peoples of the European Union that will have to finance, in any case, new expenditure of arms that is proposed in the report and which do not even have the guarantee that the military does not use a day against themselves, in the name of 'policing'.
Equally serious is the claim that a state that does not wish to take part in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution to repartirán States participating in that war.
However, with military means, were not achieved any solution, because it does not alter the cause of conflict or changes to the public.
· to military operations should be financed from the Community budget and that the Member States have to contribute with funds even if they do not wish to participate in operations (paragraphs 49 and 50).
Instead, the EU, it would be invirtieran priorities of the Petersberg tasks and would be the attention towards humanitarian and civilian options.
I support this report by my colleague Maj Theorin?
But no mention is made of the needs of this category than to give way to the demand for a deducibilidad tax of domestic services and a "adaptation of prices and of the costs to the financial possibilities of individuals'.
In fact, it is extraordinary that in the 21st century we recommend that Member States should ensure for domestic employees the right to social security and to a proper retirement.
For many young people, its first contact with the labour market can be a black economy.
What is more serious is above when it comes to women from distant countries, have taken this type of work and the need to have no other means of earning a living on a lasting basis.
The reform of the Commission will be judged by the facts, hence the need for regular monitoring reports which will be presented during the whole period of duration of the programme and the importance of the full assessment expected to December 2002.
In a recent past, various scandals and failures of operation concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
In conclusion, I consider it essential to remember that through this reform, which is essential for the future, we look at the same time more rigorous and more transparency on the part of the Commission in its day-to-day management, but also a greater sense of responsibility for its part, the strict framework of its powers.
Conservatives also support the statement contained in paragraph 7 of the report to the effect that it should ensure the democratic control and to be allowed to operating the system of the three pillars.
(The sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m..
We have received the information - and I would like to add immediately that I cannot creerla at all - that the President of the Council and head of the French State is going to appear here tomorrow only 30 minutes to speak.
It therefore seems to me that we must exclude that we can have a well-considered position and argued.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr Morillon.
In the course of the night has worked in both these texts as the figures relating to the distribution of votes in the Council and the distribution of seats in Parliament.
Madam President, I would ask the insistence that cannot be removed from the agenda the report by Mr de Roo, since, in addition to be well prepared, in the last Council of Environment of the French Presidency, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday next week, it is intended to prepare a common position on this matter.
Thank, Mr Parish?
In the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, in his capacity as President, sits there and smoked.
The political basis is clear: to harmonise the market with a high level of public health and consumer protection therefore based on the existing regulations and the development of scientific knowledge.
At stake concept and their quality of life, in which the protection of health is a very relevant weight.
This rule can also be applied to all drugs fun of dangerous, but if no more than the consumer may be affected.
Recently in the United States have earned trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of products.
We believe that the only possible and consistent is to end with the export of cigarettes prohibited in the EU for health reasons.
Instead of drawing lessons from the failure recorded in Luxembourg last 9 October, we insist on a legally attitude indefensible.
I have looked carefully what the Commissioner said to my colleague Mr Hume, "there can be no massive loss of jobs in this sector.
Parliament and the Council are those who have to approve this proposal for a directive and to examine, among other things, the appropriate legal basis for this.
Maaten and others - there is a danger that, if this Parliament and the Council accept the restrictive interpretation which propose the leader of the European People's Party and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this Parliament, the Council and the Community institutions as a whole would be tying the feet and legislative power to the development of the Community institutions, which is so important for the development of Community law.
The weak point of this proposal is that much emphasis on the promotion of free competition.
In conclusion, since the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Parliament possesses powers of coordination on environmental issues and the protection of consumers, and, of course, will work closely with the Council and the Commission in this area.
In fact that has nothing to do with tobacco, but that the ruling of the European Court of Justice could have been pronounced equally to ban the advertising of alcohol or advertising of chocolate, then, of course, the sugar may also be harmful to health.
I simply do not understand that a majority of this Parliament wishes to propose to relax the rules concerning the export more than proposed by the governments of the Member States themselves - governments which also represent the many industries to be referred to.
It is a proven fact that 80% of smokers to stop it, but in the tobacco sector boosts very few policies to help these people to stop smoking.
If we say to the other countries what levels of public health must be set by extending export our reasonable proposals for the internal market, we will jeopardise all the good work done by Mr Maaten.
We are in favour of that will be a method of testing recognised in all the countries of the EU, to carry out in a specific country in a laboratory tests are recognised.
Today is openly acknowledge the health effects of tobacco consumption, and therefore legislators as public opinion share the feeling that the time has come to adopt strict rules and regulations in this area.
Consequently, the Community rules encajarán well in the future international agreements, thus avoiding the risk of the obstacles to trade and at the same time strengthening the protection of consumers and guaranteeing a high level of health protection.
It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives as a whole in the first report of the Commission.
As regards the laboratory tests, the amendment relating to the approval of evidence is superfluous, since another article already provides for the movement of goods which comply with the provisions of the directive.
Madam President, this report is of no complications: at present, the directives on the timetable of summer only five years are in place, and then have to come back to Parliament for its renewal.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a Directive on summer-time arrangements, which we are discussing, is a good proposal.
I therefore believe that in this House should not take too much time on this issue, as the Member States, as well as the population, have already accepted largely in the regulation of summer time and this has been recognised as part of our annual rate.
In my opinion, it is appropriate that the issues relating to slots and with the application of the rules of summer time left, according to the proposal lays down, in terms of the decision of the Member States.
I would be more justified that summer-time terminase at the end of September, some six months of its beginning.
It can accept the presentation of appropriate proposals on the basis of the conclusions of the report of 2007 referred to in Article 5.
It is clear that cannot be accepted interventions in the human germ line.
Indeed, I believe that a committee on ethics, in which working people who are not doing this work as a main profession, it can provide a more long term, but on the authorities, it should exert pressure of time to get to work quickly.
These groups should be maintained in the scope of the directive.
But I am also pleased that we have managed to pour cerrojazo to the gene therapy.
I should like to express my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, for his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the opposing positions.
These programmes are linked to the fight against cancer, with the prevention of AIDS, the prevention of drug addiction and the promotion of health; and its termination would mean the end of the projects and the work of the networks to be created for this purpose.
That is very good to be able to prepare the ground, a priori, so that, even in the event that it is necessary to make a second reading, to be very close to the point where the decisions are taken.
In addition, we must bear in mind that both the prevention and promotion as the surveillance will be increasingly important and, therefore, we should provide them with more Budgets and give them more importance.
Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what sense is developing the European policy on public health.
I gather that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
In the European Union is currently the paradox that the abolition of internal borders to the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must live with the maintenance of 15 borders in the areas of police and judicial criminal, that Member States are difficult to eliminate.
To conclude, the initiative is an important step forward in the creation of a European judicial area criminal, albeit partial and limited, but it is a response to the real needs of a huge numbers of European citizens that, so far, have been virtually desamparados when they have been victims of crime outside the territory of their normal residence.
What we have asked for this group of people?
At the same time, we must ensure a special training for professionals which will have to office direct contact with the victims.
Victims must not become people doubly penalised, first because of a crime and then because of the system.
Furthermore, in this regard it is important that they are in a report discreetly and professional the relatives, or to the relatives of the victims of the facts, if they wish to, and that they can count on the necessary assistance so that they do not have to enterar of all through the press.
This applies irrespective of crime that has been committed.
Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must always take responsibility for their actions.
In other cases could be obtained information that is needed in a language of the Union that is not in itself.
I am very pleased with the positive response from Parliament before the first text on such an important issue, so that the area of freedom, security and justice that we are building progressively can offer our citizens support in situations that often find it hard to bear.
The vote on request for urgent procedure
(Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure.
In this way, on the evening of 23 to 24 November, we have agreed with the Council on the key points of a budget that although it is not brilliant itself is reasonable.
Therefore, the Commission proposed a revision by EUR 300 million to what was opposed tooth and nail for the Council.
But I also know, the discussions that is even more difficult to formulate a Council position negotiable, to obtain a mandate and get the pure national self-interest lead to a decision pan-European more or less reasonable and acceptable.
I hope that the work to a common recruitment office, as stated in the modern German, namely a European authority of recruitment, progress really so that we can work together to overcome the problems that will arise in the coming years to all the institutions - like the Council to the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions, that is, the need for staff in the coming years.
The Council refuses to make this review it seems that now we have the data, and I want to prevent: to use the flexibility instrument two years in a row, two consecutive years - at least the fifteen months and the first to less than six months of the adoption of the financial perspectives is vaciando the flexibility instrument because it prevents replenishment and its possible accumulation, which is scheduled to match up to EUR 600 million.
This amount is so important, which responds to the existence of needs very high in 2001, can be financed mainly thanks to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the value of EUR 200 million.
In view of this new element, the Council has voted at second reading a budget increased in 2.5%.
Finally, before you to proceed to the final adoption of this budget, I would like to underline the commitment of the Council in respect of certain basic budgetary rules, in the field of implementation of appropriations in reserve, the legal basis and the classification of expenditure.
On the contrary, in Nice, and I believe that the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission in general are very satisfied with the result.
Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of new sick cows of BSE was also need to act immediately in the budgetary field, in particular for the protection of health, consumer protection and also for aid to farmers affected by this situation.
In addition, the Council has set for the framework programme of assistance to the reconstruction of the Western Balkans a multi-annual indicative amount, obviously, that is compatible with this financial perspective.
With great effort, we got a couple of million euros.
Thank you very much to Mrs Haug?
We think that 1% of the budget of the European Union is very well spent.
You said, if I have understood correctly, that we must not use the reserve, because it was a contravention of the rules.
I believe that we have seen very positive things together with many others, I am not going to mention now due to the pressure of time.
Despite the fact that the expenditure on agriculture, which represent almost half of the total budget, are increasing, having taken into account the letter of amendment, to more than 5% of the increase in the total budget is only 3.5%.
Because we see the great danger that in the coming years will increase the clash, MEDA projects in the countries of the Mediterranean and the Balkans, although we all know that there are urgently needed money.
Having satisfied to overcome the difficulties that they were so close the path towards the objective of fulfilling the commitments made in Helsinki with the candidate countries without undoing the Union, to allow the Europe of tomorrow, continues to operate effectively.
These are real, although it does not go as far as the presidency - which has shown, and what resalto title, national, a great openness would have liked.
It has provided for a new legal basis for the statute for European political parties and Parliament is accorded the status of the plaintiff institutional provided for in Article 230 of the Treaty.
Recent weeks have been achieved important three achievements.
This is the aim of the declaration adopted in Nice and the reflection initiated to coordinate at European level in the fight against doping.
Among the threats, is, as you all know, the economy overheating climate.
Furthermore, in Nice, the European Union has established the permanent bodies needed to define and to conduct a common foreign and security policy: a political and security committee, a military committee and a greater European state.
For this cooperation, for their support and also for their reception, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, European, the French Presidency thanks to them.
In these areas, in fact, the conference was shocked by the intransigence of certain Member States in this respect, I feel a deep disappointment not only by the short-term consequences, but the mood of narrow-mindedness, the closure of incomprehension, which has for this position.
We need to pay a tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt, Mr Morillon has batido until the Fund for the sake of a fairer presence of the candidate countries and to make the least unreasonable, even though it is still too high, the threshold for a qualified majority, so that it has confirmed the great historic role in Belgium in the European Union.
We now need to examine carefully the text in Parliament.
I would point out, incidentally, Mr President of the European Council, the expenses are paid for by taxpayers.
I see in it a failure and not only in relation to the ambition proclaimed by the European Union to change the institutions to be able to welcome new members correctly to improving the effectiveness of the European Union, but also a failure in relation to other important objective, which perhaps mentioned very little, bringing the European Union and of the citizens.
The questions are good for us, who asked the impressive human tide that, since the whole of Europe, has convergido in Nice on the eve of the Summit.
Firstly, the Fifteen have signed quickly and running lacrimógenos gases and with the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
(Applause)
My group feels disappointed by this Treaty and concerned about the future that we deparará, so that we will oppose it with all our strength.
Mr President, you have the floor?
Finally, I would say to Mr Hager that the instrument of closer cooperation is, in my opinion, a useful tool to enable Europe to have a dynamic and that alumbre the way, as I said earlier, I believe, the Posselt.
Mr President, I would like to know if the competence of the European Parliament on the summer time is a new conquest of Nice.
Let demoralised until now by the complexity of clinical trials, laboratories, perhaps, to find the will expressed by both the Member States and by this House, the value of the market to develop a paediatric medicines, although the size is not enough to allow the recovery of investment!
What is necessary reconducir change of summer time, which was established during the oil crisis, in order to save energy, and that it had been extended until 2001?
Not always the protection of the status of victims in criminal proceedings is due.
Consequently, many travellers and tourists will benefit from this European initiative.
Mr President, I shall just to pay tribute to the President of the Commission, which is here, and the Council Presidency that is looming, and to stress that will probably never been expressed in this Parliament a unanimity like this on the results of a summit.
The work that is that, in six months, under the leadership of the French Presidency, has been completed, I believe, in spite of everything, its work on six chapters essential.
However, my greatest fear is that Great Britain, France and Germany can now subvert the delicate balance created between States of different sizes and between the institutions over several decades.
It is difficult to understand how the Nice decisions could facilitate the enlargement of the EU.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I can be very brief.
For all that, I can only draw the consequence of that when we vote on the Treaty of Nice, I am going to vote negatively.
Mr President, the most important result of Nice was, in spite of everything, which was signed a treaty, so that it is now possible to space to the candidate countries.
The real winners of this conference is Blair and Mr Aznar, the "no" to Europe.
Then, let us look at Nice, which comes after me, and I hope that you alimente with the draft convention very advanced by Belgium for your presidency, as is shown, we have to make a clean sheet, we need to change the method, we must speed up history: 2004 is too late, is far too, it is too dangerous.
Instead, the spirit of Nice has consisted wonder how to block, how can intergubernamentalizar, how he can to praise one at home as a defender of national interests instead of working for the European Union to progress really.
After Amsterdam, Nice and we have a Europe of principados, a Europe of national administrations and not the political unification of Europe.
We cannot continue to enfrentándonos the lack of decision-making by qualified majority in the essential issues.
It is true - parafrasearé Mr Bayrou - I am this seat since this morning; initially acompañando, the President of the Republic, and later, personally, and llueven criticism, which, in my view, are moderate, friendly, but that does not, however, cease to be the criticism.
In fact, we must not forget that it is the first time, since 1957, the reform, which reviews the model.
We are in the constitutional systems and the powers, cannot be confused.
Thank you very much, Mr Exchequer.
But nor has been incorporated into the Treaties and there has been a reference to the Charter in Article 6 (2) of the Treaty on European Union.
Finally, there are some positive aspects: the new version of Article 7 of the Treaty, the article concerning the political parties and their status; the right of this Parliament to demand the other institutions in the Court of Justice: this is also an important factor of political control; the new formula for the European Commission, to include the so-called 'lex Prodi' in the Treaty, to strengthen the President and the new composition of the Commission: a reasonable compromise, which I accept and will work with the time; and, as pointed out by my colleague Mr Tsatsos, is the way forward in the future.
Mr President, we have already made a rigorous evaluation of what happened in Nice, but we should remember that the Nice summit began with an agenda very limited.
Let us look at things: has not been included in the work of the Treaty the Charter, even a comment.
We want to demonstrate to the Heads of Government that we do better.
Despite the blows of chest that the French government has given this morning, the IGC frankly, not complete well.
Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French Presidency during this debate, because it is not present, I understand that President Chirac, Mr Morillon.
Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that the Intergovernmental Conference has become outdated.
2001 budget (continuation)
However, this does not mean that we could not have done something more and better would divide the two areas.
This maximum requires the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as must all administration.
With the vote which will follow this debate ends the long and complex process of approval of the budget of the European Union for 2001.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis recourse to Article 272, have been held in the financial perspective, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
Let me just say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have not left without this team footballs and intends to continue playing until we get the right result.
We do not want the resolution Colom already included a proposal for a review in the coming year, because we want to wait for the assessment of the World Bank, but we share its criticism of the fact that this way of resolving the inadequacy financial in category 4 distorts the multiannual the major objectives of the Union's external and the definition of the financial perspective.
For this to be possible, we will have to set priorities.
This is the only right and proper that the money will give our fellow citizens and conciudadanas are available to us.
If we estimate the supplementary budget, which will hopefully it will be almost 8%, while in all other fields - whether the training policy, the internal policy, including research, foreign policy, the administration, pre-accession aid experience in total only a growth rate of 1.1%.
And as the cooperation is very positive, in the next supplementary budget, already in January, we will have the opportunity to proseguirla.
We are also interested in criticise not yet regulated relations between Russia and the Baltic States.
We are following with great interest the development of society and the Russian domestic policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy for Russia represents the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
Even though the President Putin we guarantee the development of democracy in his country, he is not automatically a guarantor of a stable and democratic Russia. The democratic order is not yet a reality experienced in Russia.
We must not be insidiosos on our part, but that we must build the Europe of economic cooperation.
As far as the Caucasus, the Van Orden is quite right.
Who observe Russia from outside and isolated receives impressions of the country and Russian partners is in danger of selective declare this as the reality of the country that fits in its image of Russia.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and to establish a permanent mechanism for it.
I would like to stress the seriousness of that Russia will be a political union with Belarus.
Do you intend to support this project, Mr Commissioner Patten?
In this respect, the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as you know, the European Parliament, launched a wide-ranging dialogue on energy.
I very much hope to visit Kaliningrad personally in the first part of next year and not only because Immanuel Kant happened throughout his life in the city.
I congratulate the honourable Member once again on his excellent report on a very important issue, to which, in the coming years we will refer again and again, I am sure in this Parliament.
You I brings in a very difficult position.
Mr President, I would like to say that this debate is very necessary for the BSE crisis has an enormous impact on feedingstuffs, on the production and import of feedingstuffs.
The Council has expressed its concern in many meetings with Russia, at all levels, in particular for disuadirla to make excessive use of force and to avoid a possible extension of the conflict, to proceed to independent investigations and effective on violations of human rights, to support the group of the OSCE assistance in the fulfilment of its mission and, finally, to ensure that the transport of humanitarian aid.
Mr President, on a point of order is customary in this House that questions that cannot be answered orally so enough to respond in writing later.
(Interruption by Mr Posselt,
This directive is of 1992?
In this respect there must work.
These groups are obviously left on the sidelines of this new proposal.
- (FR) The presidency and several Member States have already received letters from the European Committee for the sugar manufacturers concerning the Commission's proposal, which will be taken into account in its deliberations.
Question No 6 by (h the 0886 / 00):
Firstly, I must say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet replied to the question by Mr Korakas.
Now, we must establish this authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that will have to move forward.
More specifically, what has met the representative of the Presidency, in this case the Ambassador of France in Algeria, with Mr.
We welcome the measures proposed in this respect by the preparatory committee and decided by the General Assembly relative to the way the certification of non-governmental organisations, the preparatory process and to the special session in September 2001.
The cooperation includes several references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
As the Council has already pointed out to the honourable Member in his reply, the process of mutual recognition of criminal decisions will lead to better protect the rights of individuals.
I should apremiarlo a little more?
In particular, guarantees the political control and the strategic direction operation of a military crisis management.
I would simply like to point out that the system of the Treaty makes a difference in treatment between the rates and indirect taxation, whose harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market Article 93 - and the approximation, provided for in Article 94, the laws that have a direct impact on the establishment and the functioning of the common market, of which are those relating to direct taxation.
Let us few words in these three sectors.
If it maintains the model of behaviour that in the event of doubt all fighting all, this could be done by Aires jumping the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe that is based on regional cooperation.
In the end, we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, in addition to cooperation on both sides.
Mr President, our group supports the work that Mr Baltas in connection with the report on the viability of the negotiation of the Stabilisation and association agreements with the Republic of Croatia.
Mr President, over the years in which I was President of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to accompany many Croats in its efforts towards freedom and prosperity that they, like other peoples of our continent, identificaban with its integration into the European institutions.
On the basis of the results obtained by Croatia this year, I have to say that I am confident that we will be able to reach a rapidly.
This, of course, our criterion and the speed with which we have adapted our policy towards Croatia in recent months it testifies.
We have a duty to with Croatia to give its government and its people any kind of aid in the coming years and we thank you very much for his wise advice in order to ensure that we continue down this road.
It is incomprehensible in this respect that the Laskar Jihad had the opportunity to go to the Moluccas this spring with thousands of supporters of new to exacerbate the conflict.
In Timor, militias are blocking the return of refugees and the people who provide the aid are asediadas.
On behalf of the Committee on Industry, I will confine myself to three points.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
Is not the only country in which this is happening.
The continuing violence in the Moluccas, in Aceh and Irian Jaya causes great pain to the population.
Tomorrow we had here the ceremony of the award of the Sakharov Prize.
According to the latest news arrivals of Indonesian archipelago urgently, too, the question of whether the situation does not seem to be more serious, yes, more precarious, for the President Wahid and serves the enemies of the rapporteur analyses.
If we want to help Indonesia, we must now act with money and facts and not just words.
I think that the report is extremely valuable to shed light on what has been happening.
It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia has not been resolved, overnight.
The protection of financial interests of the Communities
We must finally remove the obstacles to its independent activity, especially in the recruitment of staff and in its structure.
That is why the Commission must fulfil finally through a process of internal reforms its announcement that it will not tolerate the fraud and that each of them will be pursued consistently.
I believe that this should also be exactly the result of Nice.
We would like to see Member States opened negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a federal European Prosecutor.
I would also like to know why was delayed until yesterday, after the Danish referendum on the euro, the publication of the Commission document on this issue.
I have tabled an amendment to citen the names of these countries, because it is high time that this is done and shame.
I am sure that OLAF has an interest in the shape of transparent way the selection of the tables senior managers.
However, we in the European Parliament must be careful not to see the beam in our eye for being so focused on seeing the straw in alien: that of the Commission.
We are trying to extinguish the fire and asfixiándonos with the smoke.
And nobody can understand what, I too do not.
With a view to achieving cabalmente that purpose, I would like to highlight four questions which I regard as fundamental in the work of the authority of budgetary control.
The Treaty is a problem for Parliament.
Commissioner, it is worrying that explicitly to draw the attention of the Commission on respect for the rights of Members, as the guardian of the Treaties.
They relate to a number of guidelines for the action that the Committee on Budgetary Control can be found when problems in different areas, including those of recommend to the Committee on Budgets that congele or reduce the amount of the appropriations intended for the items in question in the budget for the following year; not to authorise the transfer of appropriations which involve the increase in the budget lines affected for a certain period until they have completed internal investigations supplementary; up to ask the President of the Commission to call for the resignation of any Commissioner affected by the serious problems: discovered something like a Caesarean of the EU.
The report demands are made, detailed inventories of operational activities, comprehensive controls of the budget lines and the irregularities as well as an internal assessment of the results from the Commission.
Commissioner, the starting point for the transmission of information to the European Parliament is the EC Treaty and not the interinstitutional agreement.
But the result of this common position would be, if it is not amended, which ultimately not only have an equal arms with regard to America but even within Europe.
I do not know why it should not be achieved in this case, as it has been achieved for all the other directives, in the end to reach a compromise.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
The first amendment relates to Article 4, in establishing what has to be the competent authority for the supervision of the offer.
We now have a proposal that would cause, whining Court search for the best possible litigation, at a time of delicate agreement business.
In the UK the regulation of public takeover bids through the voluntary code of practice administered by the group in charge of the takeover bids has produced very good results: a good example here of a pragmatic approach of a highly complex issue in which legislation would be less appropriate.
But, more than that, it is better that we can bring forward the Lisbon Agenda, the creation of a European economy competitive and dynamic.
In the European Parliament on what we should do is to regulate in a minimal at European level for the large areas which cause tensions in the law of acquisitions, for example, the presidency towards shareholders, large shareholders face or small businesses face capital market.
Some amendments tabled by Parliament further improve the text of the Council's common position as a result, their points focused attention on the issues that could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and that urgen to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
After all, it is not proven in any way that the definition of equitable price proposal is better than any other, because the different definitions that are used at the moment in the Member States are all very well.
The debate is closed..
In addition, it acknowledges the artist a right of information to be aware of their rights within a period of up to three years before the dealers of professional objects of art, it is reasonable, because they have to bring the accounts of purchases and sales.
Consequently, we must address the Austrian legislator and not to attack the European legislator that only creates conditions for positive artists and auction houses.
Moreover, the issue before us, the need for a common position is all the more than just a common position will enable the European Union to influence at international level in order to defend the interests of artists in the world.
I would hope the wisdom of this House and insight.
In Germany, for example, of 7,000 artists who transferred their rights in 1998 only 274, actually obtained any money for it and 40% of the "droit de suite was intended to cover the costs to collect the sum.
In short, it is not harmonisation of this kind in this sector.
Had already been rejected a similar amendment at first reading.
They thought that the translations could continue, in spite of this very tight timetable and difficult.
However, we have reached the point where, unfortunately, we can no longer postpone over this matter.
Our committee proposes that this be brought forward a year.
This Parliament is, of course, in favour of these values and will continue to defendiéndolos.
The technology and the development of markets acarrearán change in any case.
There is no legal basis to enable exclude competition in these cases.
A reduction of universal services - the very essence of the postal sector - until 50 grammes would seriously endanger the ability of the national postal servants to provide a universal service at an affordable rate for all, irrespective of the place where they are resident.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which metieron in the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the postal service of British.
We have turned the safety net for users of the postal services in a hamaca where tumban big business of post to continue with what we have always done.
I am very pleased because this notion of special services intended to put new technologies outside the scope of universal service is to move on to the reserved sector the weight limit of 50 proposed weight to 150 weight.
We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Commissioner, and we will not tolerate that there is such a situation.
For this reason, the European Commission has not proposed the total liberalisation of postal services in the second phase.
This is something that I wish to the other European countries.
In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein echó face recently in the French position illiberal, or at least that was the holder of a newspaper.
In this sense, I could say something that Spain has created this fund and has been the same, and this is to talk about the random legal bases, which shows the fund, the virtual criteria in terms of its composition and the guarantees of discretionary in its implementation.
And I hope that tomorrow, we vote in favour of the amendment by Mr Atkins or Mr Sterckx ’ s because otherwise I shall be forced to vote against this report.
Royal Mail is in competition and I distributed letters in Malmö, Sweden.
Madam President, Commissioner, what has taught us the debate, or rather the controversial raised by Commissioner Bolkestein in their quest for a liberalisation of postal services in the absence of any assessment of the first stage and violate rules laid down by this directive, using progressive terms and that value, such as modernization, liberalisation, monitoring of technological development, the falls in a regression of social quality of a country.
The protection of universal services provided through a compensation fund which would make it possible to use private profits for a few public services cannot be permanent.
These same limits and delays have contributed to a debate in which it is often confuse the ends with the instruments.
Madam President, to deal with this matter we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
Madam President, allow me first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur Mr Ferber, because, of course, has done a difficult, complicated work, which has had to try to find a balance between proposals, positions and points of departure and arrival completely different.
I fear that the effect will be that the current monopolists will further strengthen its position at the taxpayers' expense and that suba the standard for the new candidate.
I am also glad to see that our liberal friends the continent are setting an example to the British liberal.
I certainly accept that the concept of liberalisation per se has nothing wrong with and that can be of benefit to consumers.
Justified, since it is included in the logic of the founding Treaties of the European Union, which anteponen the completion of the internal market for the free movement of goods and services in an environment of competition.
Universal service is the cornerstone of Community policy in this field and everything we do is designed to create the right conditions for improvement.
Special services are one of the areas of great importance, of which must be promoted innovation and modernisation.
He said that the opening up to competition of almost all the postal market seems inevitable before the end of the decade.
I am in favour of the existence of solid guarantees that are always protect the obligations of universal service.
That is why I cannot remain silent and not permaneceré silent while in the future of the sector, is threatened by the inability to overcome due to all the challenges that we marked in Lisbon.
Thank you, Mr Simpson?
However, I must point out that this common organisation of the markets has as its objective the guarantee of access to the Community market for their products.
It is absolutely necessary to find, over and above the tariff preference of EUR 300, a means to enable effective access to the quota C and subsequent way of assessing the impact of the system in these producers.
For example, we cannot fail to express our concern about the banana production in certain countries, the small producers in the ACP countries in the West Indies and in some countries of the West Africa have been traditional suppliers of the banana market with the commitments that we must not forget.
Therefore, I ask that this report will be supported in its entirety by the Members of this House, as it was in the Committee on Agriculture.
While the United States first condemn the reference periods historic, and now defend their own historical reference periods.
Powerful interests involved, especially those of the Americans, who are not direct growers of bananas, but which have invested capital in American commercial companies.
Sometimes seems as if the Commission, the proposals in the deregulation of trade and agricultural production at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.
It is a pity that the Commission and the Council persist in a solution that can seriously compromising this production, in particular after 2006.
The successive opinions of the WTO do not say that we cannot give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers.
Thus, the transitional period should be for almost 15 years and no less than ten and compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of production in the outermost regions, which will also include a aid to institutions which are bananas produced there.
I hope that today will listen to our arguments, since this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, albeit of EUR 300, can prove as quite useless in the facts as ACP producers to see hot-rolled system for the so-called "by order of arrival.
VOTE
(Parliament adopted the proposal of the Commission.
The Commission rejects the remaining.
The before the vote.
(Parliament accepted the oral amendment.
Report (A5-0376 / 2000) by Mrs Morgan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the reform of the procedures and institutions on budgetary control (2000 / 2008 (INI))
The majority of smokers not know all the risks and bear all the costs of their choice.
During the already 35 years of my life long parliamentary I have always adhered to this rule.
I am afraid that their hopes will be in vain.
This is our last desperate attempt to place the packets labels and images which reflect the true cost of tobacco consumption.
Lehne report (A5-0368 / 2000.
I believe that this trial is still correct and relevant and, consequently, I voted against the report in its entirety.
Sensibly, the Committee on Legal Affairs insists refuse to a ceiling and a minimum percentage of less than 7%.
By voting against this directive, my group wishes to present a warning policy to deal with in Europe not to create unnecessary rules.
If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin, for decades, how can we give a minimal trust Mr Putin executioner, the Chechen people, the godfather of the various mafias, which insists settle all kinds of opposition, civil society, political parties (trade unions), to enhance their personal power?
This is not true that Indonesia deserves intensification of relations, because in recent years, the leaders of that country have not been distinguished precisely or by a great democracy or by great merits; however, we must be concerned about the Indonesian people and this is why we are always welcome the intensification of relations and aid.
The unit should only deal with the crimes committed by employees.
The Theato report on the fight against fraud to discover that the European Central Bank, certainly prove better his famous independence, did not consider should be added to the agreement on the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
The concludes voting time?
Or we belong to a club or not belong, and is particularly important that we recognise this principle.
Ladies and gentlemen, not help us to change the name.
The tariff only system, however, is an important element, which guarantees the balance of the Commission proposal and is an important basis in order to achieve some progress in the Council.
National and regional programmes for the promotion of rural development should include measures to support the marketing of these banana-producing.
Europe and the United States are working in close cooperation in defence of the values we share.
We hope that it will be talking about a future new WTO round, as well as on the consequences for this round the wide range of new initiatives bilateral trade that are being discussed in the American hemisphere.
As rightly said, transatlantic relations have intensified greatly in the last ten years - above all, it is true, by the United States, thanks to President Clinton, but I believe that history will be to these new relations has also contributed Europe, which has played a key role for their development, through the 1990 transatlantic declaration and through the new transatlantic agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
In short, it will be important to achieve a change of course and to draw up a genuine transatlantic agenda for the year 2001.
To conclude, I will refer to the Dominican Republic, to the effect that was supposed to the WTO should become an impartial arbiter of common rules, in which countries could learn to act according to the rules.
Secondly, although we cannot be pleased by the decline of communist sham, the collapse of the Soviet Union was a single superpower: the United States of America.
I know that the Commissioner very good and constructive dialogue with Parliament and the committees which bear no relation to these issues.
The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the following reports:
These objectives, the primary and secondary, will be the test with which they have to judge the specific proposals put forward by the Commission.
We know that such a solution installation in one country with possibility of providing services throughout the Union - could make an avalanche in those countries with lower taxation.
Well, in 1992 was an agreement, then considered minimum harmonisation, according to which the normal rate of VAT could not be below 15%, and the Member States had the power to apply a more or less than 5% rates did not, in this case with derogations established.
We have asked the European Commission to ensure that there are no distortions of the market and that this report on the results to the Council and Parliament.
In short, the aim of this proposal is correct, but the method is unreasonable and if we really want to promote the e-economy in Europe, a signal would be appropriate to fix a zero rate of VAT for our businesses operating through the network, rather than trying to impose our problems to the other.
In order to comply with the requirements of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, we will have to take all kinds of measures to restrict it.
The only case in which has not yet collects no tax is the benefits are carried out in the European Union from a third country.
The positive discrimination, air transport has to stop.
Companies of other countries, outside the Community, not pay taxes.
The compact discs are not so archaic and would be necessary to impose a tax, while programmes circulating on the Internet would be outside the imposition of a rate.
However, the solution being proposed is intended to be technically unfeasible and to put cortapisas to the promotion of transactions on the Internet in the Union, precisely when all auguran expansion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing garra and collection of capacity.
We should be looking for ways to promote electronic commerce and not to devise new forms of gravarlo.
The Liberals are telling us that it is necessary to state the lowest possible.
The Primarolo group has produced simple rules that is necessary to apply.
As objection, the group that I represent in this House believes that we should address the fact that, while the newspapers enjoy normally of reduced rates of VAT, this reduction does not apply to the newspapers electronically.
The taxation of kerosene can only be introduced, therefore, by means of an international consensus to guarantee equality of competition.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthens one of the key arguments which I put forward in my report on behalf of the Committee on Transport, which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that, in view of the fact that it is politically difficult to achieve an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we should seek alternatives tools to achieve the same effect, including a rate for emissions.
In fact, the industry pays 100% of its infrastructure costs through charges air traffic control and of airport, which were raised in 1998 to a total of USD 4 billion, unlike the other means of transport such as rail and road transport, which are still heavily subsidised.
The current situation is not favourable?
In this context it must be noted that, unfortunately, emissions from air traffic are a problem in percentage terms, although it is not too much, much is increasing, and so we should not desdeñarlo.
The plan will be detrimental to the development of SMEs, both inside and outside the Union, particularly in view of the proposal to reduce the level of exemption threshold prohibitively under a turnover of EUR 40 000 per year.
If we are too greedy to tackle the issue before us, we will be putting at risk the future of the really important electronic commerce in Europe.
The starting point of the suppliers outside the Community that supply to customers within the Community can only be registered in a place cannot assume a shift of tax revenue between Member States.
Bearing in mind that the debate within the Council is continuing and even the Commission's desire in the right way to settle the issue of VAT and electronic commerce in the short term, I believe that the best at the moment is not formally accept the amendments to Parliament, but them a reality, as far as possible, through negotiations in the Council.
For this reason, I cannot accept the amendments.
Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner, by all dossiers to which you referred this week.
For its part, only three months after the accident, the Commission took up its responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures which the European Parliament fully refrendó last 30 November.
Indeed, with more than fifteen directives or regulations in force, urgently standardise practices and to exercise greater control over the application of Community rules, in order to avoid significant differences and unacceptable in the field of maritime safety could arise within the Union.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his continuing commitment in the field of maritime safety.
I would like to remind you that in aviation safety compensation which apply at European level and in the field of American, not amount to the same amounts that are applied in other countries.
Secondly, I would say to the honourable Member who might have the capacity to confiscate or freeze funds for a specific company for compensation for damage or other, the French courts, which could establish responsibilities beyond the planned according to objective criteria which raises the current regulation on international oil pollution.
The Commission considers that these provisions are going in the right direction towards the establishment of systems of charging fairer, which also incentivan a more rational and efficient use of the road network.
As a result of the criticisms received, particularly in Ireland and France, has changed the extent and now the British Finance Minister has given a different turn: now is presented as a tax on the right of use for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
I have undertaken to ensure that the food that is available to consumers, whether they come from inside or outside the European Union to meet the highest standards.
Of course - I understand the concern of the honourable Member.
I am sorry to say, Commissioner, I am not interested in your response.
The question raised by the honourable Member is important.
In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the indigenous population of all ijaw instigate violence against it and even to pay to the Nigerian soldiers to disparen against demonstrators at the naval base of Warri.
(IT) In her report adopted on 15 November, the Commission came to the conclusion that the aid to the exploitation under Regulation 1540 / 98 have not allowed us to resolve the problem of the policies of surcoreanas prices.
I believe that the whole of intentions is very reassuring, but the reality is that in the meantime our shipyards are closing.
Question No 38 by (H-0868 / 00):
Commissioner, I understand that we do not wish to change its decision, despite the fact that ten Member States are opposed to this tariff.
This initiative is based on a Council regulation amending Regulation, which defines the egp.
I represent some producers and therefore I am a deep concern.
We are working on this in committee, we have not taken up this week be Nielson absent from a trip to the Balkans.
We are working on the safeguard clause, and whether Mr Clegg needs arguments to talk with its producers of beet, to have at its disposal.
I would like to thank Mr Liikanen for his splendid and very positive response.
I will deal with this matter with my services once we know the budgetary resources available for the next year.
At the moment, the efforts of my services and my own personal focus on limiting the distance between the parties and the future Court.
In the same way that the courts in Düsseldorf, Munich and other German cities have specialised in patent law, and there are also specialised courts in London, a court EU that meets and judged cases relating to Community patents should be very specialised.
To prevent this situation provisional acquires a permanent, on 13 July 1999, on 13 July last year, the Commission reminded in a letter to the Member States from their obligation to appoint courts for the Community trade mark.
As you know the honourable Members of this House, the presentation of a complaint itself does not affect the progress of the project.
Question No 47 by (h 0877 / 00):
This means, therefore, that the Commission only make use of the available legal measures which, as stated in the regulation.
The question is where we must address these students to understand that when continue this cycle of studies and what culminan in Britain are entitled to obtain results.
King could be elected for a certain period of time between the Finnish Members of Parliament more meritorios.
It could also be seen as an issue which affects competition, it will continue to be sold without taxes in the southern part of the Baltic, the route between Stockholm and Helsinki, so that it will not be possible in the route between Umeå and Vaasa.
What we must do is to correct this situation through the promotion of multilingual content, because they are a prerequisite for the success of the content of European industry.
The problem that concerns me most is that small businesses do not always have sufficient guarantees and a record commercial contrastada to offer the investor.
In order to complete the development of the ambitious programme European de need to simplify and consolidate from the point of view of safety procedures considered.
Therefore, the objective of the measures aimed at the promotion of public support for the industry, the content of the EU must also be the achievement of a high level of culture and the diversification of the same.
On the other hand, are the communication networks, we need the content to fill constantly their virtual space, and we consider the obvious subordination of its content, purchasing, its use without special attention to the rules of production.
Mr President, I very much welcome the programme relating to the European digital content and I would like to highlight two considerations.
That is why I support the amendments calling for the adoption of specific actions in the field of new technologies.
First, on the role of the social and cultural digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament emphasis on the social and cultural of digital content.
An assessment and environmental noise
Indeed, I am grateful for the support that the Christian Democrats and, incidentally, also on the part of the Liberal Group, have given to this amendment in particular to the limit of aircraft noise.
Just this year, six years later the dates mentioned above, and under pressure from the French government, the Commission has submitted a proposal to establish a harmonised noise indicators.
This proposal is, in fact, quite moderate, if we bear in mind that the Scandinavian countries already have stricter rules that we are proposing for the year 2012.
Schiphol orly, Barcelona, and other airports already comply with strict measures.
Another important point is that we are proposing to incorporate and that it will be essential in the context of the problems of aircraft noise is the definition of other indicators of noise additional, in addition to which the rapporteur has pointed out.
The lack of common rules in the European Union, we have seen situations of glaring distortion of competition between airports and lack of equality between the citizens of the various Member States.
That is why the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange seem to me to be important.
Mr President, first of all, I must say that I welcome the report.
This was to be the purpose of Amendment No 36, although I believe that the idea has not yet been developed to Fund.
We should look carefully at this and then adopt a combined approach in both areas, on the one hand, setting limit values for the various sources of emissions and noise, on the other hand, quality standards for emissions.
We need more time and I regret that we have not had, although in general, support the framework directive.
Once that Member States have comparable information provided, the Commission will consider the question of introducing limit values and other Community measures to reduce the number of people who are affected by the noise, and will present a report to the Council and Parliament.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
These is the three criteria.
Thank you, I sympathise with you, because, if you have the throat as a estropajo, I, as a bayeta, as I say, North Rhine; the fact is that it seems that the influenza anda rondando for here.
If the problems of diet are chronic increases, in addition, the risk of contracting cancer.
Then, it was also found that the Commission lacked the necessary instruments to act properly.
Tomorrow we have another stage in the programme, then it will be the time to our colleague Marit Paulsen, the liberal group, who will have the opportunity to qualify even more the directive before us.
The Member States and the Commission have now a better instrument for ensuring the faithful compliance with Community legislation on animal feed and, in the event of an emergency situations arise in third countries, can take measures without loss of time.
We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and so far, these issues have been the embryonic stage in regard to the cities.
The process of planning must be implemented in a fairly and innovative.
The multiannual programme for 2000-2004 sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for this purpose, as well as the implementation of Agenda 21 is an excellent means of coordination and development actions.
In order to ensure that the threat of climate change is necessary to reduce the transport and to abandoning fossil fuels at local level.
There have been many who suggested that the budget is too small.
The intention is to be the main partners in this context are the Commission and the networks of the local authorities, which have the legal responsibility to develop and implement policies of sustainable development in the urban environment.
The Court of Justice, and even the bodies of the WTO dispute settlement consider that sometimes the precautionary principle applies in the environmental field and in terms of public health, and sometimes even against Europeans, as demonstrated by the matter pending the cheeses produced with fresh milk.
The aim must not be the limitation or compensation of damage, but that the overriding aim must be to prevent damage to health or the assets of persons.
In 1996, the European Parliament came out in favour of a ban on the use of animal meal throughout the European Union, in accordance with the precautionary principle, although only by this.
Never existed, and never will be, an absolute scientific certainty on the new substances or on new products.
Finally, if that is the precautionary principle is to be effective and credible, it is essential for the participation of all those involved, including the representatives of civil society, political decisions surrounding its implementation.
And, finally, that public health and the environment must prevail over other considerations, particularly economic.
An essential condition for the application of the precautionary principle is that the concern about the possible harmful effects, to provide a scientific basis.
Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American professor George, Carlo, whom the Food and Drugs Administration has entrusted in the seven years a study on the impact of radiation on human health, revealed that there is a risk that the use of portable telephones improved the emergence of brain tumours, Alzheimer's disease and injuries in the skin.
Mr President, the environment and public health are as a complicated machine with a lot of functions that vigilamos and control to intervene and that it is not ruin it.
The application of this principle must at all costs avoid contain innovation and economic activity, generate timidity and industrial stagnation, become a means to deter competition.
As you will have noted Parliament, the Commission's position is in line with the majority of the issues raised in your motion for a resolution.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m?
Its Article 2 enshrines the right to life and at every opportunity that in Spain terrorism kills one person, the whole of the Union is affected, which is one of its most essential principles.
We do not want to replace institutions urgirlas legitimately established, but to protect our rights and our freedoms without concessions to terror.
VOTE
We also reminded the observation of the Council on the classification of the budget lines relating to the project of early retirement, the Commission and on the administrative expenditure of the fisheries agreements.
(Parliament accepted the legislative resolution.
That is to say, is no longer present.
The few parecerán 23.428 permits obtained them, but on the other hand will be happy to be offered space so that they can grow.
The consequence of that abolition, which started to be applied in the middle of last year, was, as we had anticipated, an interruption of the dramatic pace of approval of projects and implementation of payments, with the implementation of an annual authorisation of this Fund, at the end of June 2000, was reduced to a percentage point.
The text is a Charter in White ideal for a closure in practice of the General Secretariat of the European Parliament in Luxembourg.
Before my journey, they said to me: "it is Christmas, and we welcome the Christmas in Bergamo and St Lucia. What will be the Mr Morillon.
In addition, we object to overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources earmarked for the information to sell them.
Mr President, I voted for the report Mr García-Margallo y Marfil on the taxation of electronic commerce.
Mr President, I will try enmendarme before 2004 with some explanation of vote in favour of Malta.
However, I say this with a certain solemnity: is the most that can accept a Europe, in my view, that is too liberal!
The existence of a deadline incentivaría to the postal sector to develop and to modernise their services, while it would facilitate the planning and investment in the markets.
They will continue to exert pressure and consolidate its position with the money earned the distribution of consignments of more than 150 grammes.
The liberalisation of postal services, as was proposed by the Commission, is not adequate and coherent, and that is why I voted in favour of the report and all the amendments expressing the same direction.
The de Roo report (A5-0378 / 2000.
We also have reservations about Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, we remain convinced that are compatible with the WTO.
The Commission's proposal is unacceptable, as it stands, just because it represents a capitulation without conditions in the American dictatorship! capitulation this is unworthy of our European project and the environmental and social model which we say we want to build!
This contravenes the respect of national identity as stipulated in Article 6 (3) of the Treaty on European Union.
It must be stressed that linguistic minorities, instead of being up by globalization, the internet, have encounter in this means a new opening cultural and economic.
Mr President, in the absence of other results, the negotiations which took place in Nice will be made clear the intentions of the protagonists of the European Union.
In this respect the tone of the resolution is too simplistic.
The delay in the publication of the written conclusions - which are not yet officially available at the moment, four days more late - shows quite clearly the difficulty of drafting decisions taken in the confusion.
The only way to prevent dangerous conflicts in the future, is to maintain the traditional concept according to which Europe is based on mutual respect for national communities.
The Nice Summit concluded with an agreement that Sunday should lead to a draft Treaty.
Nice, on the resolution voted on today, does not reflect this.
Finally, a reference to the social policy, for which France had bet in the presentation of your Presidency, but that, in the end, was on the one hand full of little, apart from the declarations of intent and the titles of documents of content very vague and inadequate in the face of the problems and the enormous discontent, of which the demonstration of workers in Nice was also important expression.
The really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, all remains as before.
What impressive in the debate on Nice is the feeling that the end of the Treaty does not father or mother, nor is the son of one: the French Presidency desdobló to apologise, instead of taking clearly the results of the IGC and their reasons; political groups which correspond to the governments of the Member States multiplicaron criticism.
On the contrary, reduces the influence of the national democracies by the restriction of the right of veto and to give more power to the European Parliament.
If these consequences could be calculated in my year of birth, in 1944, the agreement to be concluded in Chicago, probably would not have agreed exemption from tax for fuel and other products of aviation.
Given that there is no such thing as zero risk scientists, or at least, politicians must apply the criterion of proportionality, judge risks uncertain and assume their responsibilities.
But this Parliament also fought to this reduction in the resources for innovative policies were compensated using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause for the budget estimate.
All have a part to play in this important area because, in a truly global market in which we are already, the new ideas - with adequate resources, and with a strong support and realistic - will be able to maintain our place in Europe at the forefront of technological development in the new industries and in communications technology, in particular.
In the previous intervention already declared themselves harsh words against the budgets, and that is EUR 400 million is really the minimum funding, so the second part of the exercise should take advantage of the opportunities for additional funding which offers the flexibility instrument, as pointed out in the report.
In my opinion, to accompany this automatically, and not as concludes the report, a reduction of European added value.
As we all know, the European Union unemployment is concentrated in the territories economically and technologically less developed, in particular those of Objective 1, which is why it is necessary that the innovative actions are not just a simple technological nature, but they are inspired by an explicit willingness of economic development and employment.
When I return to my own region, the East of England, and that a single descubro local government has used the money in this period, I doubt that we have been everything that we have to be effective in the future to welcome these new communities.
Mr President, my first words are for Helmut Markov to thank and congratulate him on the constructive, extremely competent and serious presentation of the draft communication on the innovative actions the ERDF for the period 2000-2006.
Energy efficiency and aspects of environmental policy have not been forgotten in these guidelines, can lead to innovative actions by way of a third issue, which concerns the regional identity and sustainable development.
However, we wish to projects to choose at regional level, as, moreover, that it has understood Mr Berend, in his speech.
The debate is closed..
We therefore call for this report and in the three amendments which we have added to the Commission to redouble its efforts to make an appeal to the conciliation procedure before the WTO.
I believe that the Commissioner must demonstrate to the industry which is doing everything it can to this effect in order to deal with this threat to our external industry.
Finally, of course, we hope that, on 18 December, be examined at the meeting of the group of 6 of the OECD agreement "ships'.
However, all the signs point to the final goal moves again and again, so that we never achieve it.
As you all know, the simple handling of this procedure will need more than six months.
For the large corporations, and for their lawyers, political claim less state means that only the state and its finances must be available to it alone.
But to achieve this, so that the process to consolidate the shipbuilding industry, jobs and to reassure the families that depend on it, are still necessary assistance beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not equal, but of disloyalty and dumping.
The Commission encourages the improvement of competitiveness of shipyards in the EU, but in the face of the massive cuts in the price of Korean shipyards, the increase in productivity, which can be achieved is not enough.
The Council emphasised that support mechanism must not distort competition within the EU.
The presence of the submarine averiado in waters of Algeciras Bay has become because, unfortunately, in a diplomatic conflict between a military power and nuclear colonial and a second-class Member State, according to the latest classification of Nice, which does not require their rights and are doblega explanations to children.
When, through the part that medical difundieron in the country in which they live the owner -, through the British press, it was discovered that the disease was serious, instead of change of heart it changed the qualification of the centre.
And, of course, we look forward to the response of the Commission to check whether the objective was achieved.
Mr President, I would also like to my first words were of sympathy with the families of the murdered councillor and with the Members of the European People's Party, and the rejection of this barbarity fascist ETA and the groups that are amparando.
I also believe that it would be appropriate to take the submarine Tireless in Britain for its repair, as soon as possible, as soon as they den weather conditions appropriate.
You asked whether the Commission considers that the Directive 89 / 618 / Euratom, on information to the people in the event of a radiological emergency, and the Directive 96 / 29 / Euratom, on basic safety standards, are the implementation of the submarine and what measures have been taken accordingly.
According to the usual procedure for complaints, we cannot make public this answer, although we can say to outline what it says.
One aspect of the Euratom Treaty is the transport of waste contaminated between Member States; but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and all contaminated waste will be a part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without going through any Member State of the European Union.
All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the rock.
We see here a Member State which is public opinion in another Member State as it would to any other country in the world, as if, in fact, would not have any affectio societatis fifty years after the start of the European company, as if European solidarity had not progressed in the least.
It is a fact that in a moment, that the only submarine which operated in British waters was a German submarine.
There is currently being discussed, but the citizens based on their knowledge or in its intuition, directed their attention to the European institutions.
The lack of spending in new military equipment due to cuts in the area of defence of the British Labour Government will result in the future, without doubt, the most frequent episodes of military equipment that defective withdrawn to carry out repairs essential.
The competence of the Community, even if some people want something else, it does not cover the classification of ports to carry out repairs submarines, even in matters of safety of nuclear reactors or technical requirements for a submarine be withdrawn for its repair elsewhere.
It would be necessary, to give them more aid, to call on the Community institutions to strengthen the financial means, human and material the UNHCR.
I would ask the Commission to come back to increase this aid and to appoint always to the UNHCR as coordinating body in all the contracts concluded with NGOs.
It must therefore have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move with all safety and having the necessary resources to fulfil their mission.
On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which was the final objective set at Tampere for the common European asylum system.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to all the work done by Mrs Ogata to the UNHCR and to wish Mr Morillon.
We think it is important that we are promoting a policy in Yugoslavia amnesty for this recovery is mentioned, but we also think it very important that we condemn without doubt the re-emergence of the incursions and terrorist activities at the borders between Serbia and Kosovo, Albania, because this worrying way reminiscent of what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where there was responsibilities of Western powers.
In paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of our compromise resolution we very clear.
I appeal to the President Kostunica to clarify what happened to people like Mr Ukshin Hoti, of whose fate we have dealt with here several times and whose whereabouts we know nothing.
I also endorse the call the KFOR to desbarate any act of violence in the Presevo Valley.
I welcome the measures it has already taken the KFOR to tackle the problem and I am calling for moderation to all parties.
B5 0916 / 2000, by Mr Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the PSE Group;
This clause was agreed in the palace of the currency in March 1990, and what I know because I was privileged to be there in the act of inauguration of President alwyn, following the referendum was that by the end of the regime of General Pinochet.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution in which we will vote in favour of course.
It is important that the international community to exercise its right of democratic vigilance, not as interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, but as a political procedure, precautionary and preventive.
The situation in the prisons and the police headquarters, with torture and abuse, is totally unacceptable.
This is exactly the same treatment to see in Western Europe, and before protests, Minister hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a social and political consensus on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
It is urgent, and that is why we decided to include this item on the agenda.
It procesará next 8 January. He reproaches taking part in a meeting of Tunisian opponents in France, which, furthermore, he denies.
When the militants and responsible for these associations want to meet the day of the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the police surrounding their houses and those attending this meeting are attacked in the streets by men dressed as civil.
The second problem is, in fact, only a part of a set of harassment.
My group, as this Parliament is particularly sensitive to the human rights situation in Tunisia and in the rest of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, show a little restraint, please.
Negotiations marcharon very well and I am pleased that these negotiations are gaining speed, which I hope will lead to the conclusion that referred to the honourable Member.
Several Members have referred to the situation of prisoners in Turkey.
B5 0912 / 2000 by Van Hecke, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group;
We could not, in my opinion, Mr President, Commissioner, retractarnos on this attitude.
In this context, there was the decision of the power of the military, which, as always, only contributed to worsening the situation.
This attitude fit in well with the continuity of the policy of French imperialism.
The Commission is concerned also much the recent violence.
The debate on matters topical, urgent and of major importance is closed.
Unfair competition aid to destroy good environments for the shipbuilding industry, to the loss of know-how (know-how) and the creation of jobs in the long term, may lead to situations of monopoly, which will not benefit to world trade.
The Minutes of the previous sitting
For this reason, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the contribution they have made in the procedure for tabling amendments to the technical and the Commission because they have been a few elements extremely valuable to bring to a successful conclusion to the resolution.
The adoption of the social agenda at the Nice European Council, we are particularly delighted, and we hope that the Member States know how to take this opportunity to encourage the development and the coordination of social security systems and care for the elderly, and promote other measures, such as, for example, to the learning of lifelong learning, to guarantee their reintegration into working life.
The promotion of training throughout the life - something that has already been mentioned by another speaker - is another matter which also support.
Of course, the people of more than 60 or 70 years still much can be done useful, but it is a mistake to do that, to their age, their income dependent on their work.
Already, in its monthly report in July 2000, the European Central Bank emitía very serious warnings about this.
As far as I am concerned, the Member States can deal with this problem much better themselves by means of their own legislation.
With its proposals for an active life for the elderly, society is gaining a whole generation.
We need to fulfil the promises on pensions, but pensions must be guaranteed with own resources of these countries, without the need to come to a common financial policy of the EU to make effective its payment.
Over the last 100 or 150 years we have experienced the greatest social revolution, which has doubled the life expectancy of the people.
That is what makes sense to the extension of mathematical life, which has enabled the medical progress.
Cobraron compensation for the whole of society, was, therefore, concerned, older workers abandoned employment, but is not contrató young workers to be removed and many jobs.
The result of family policy and tax should be rather than men and women with family responsibilities can be free to decide whether they want to develop a work or not.
My brother and I met with him more there.
Other future initiatives in the field of public health aimed at all on the issues relating to health and care for the elderly and the promotion of a healthy ageing.
Mr President, I accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, which says that we need to amend the text, and insists on the concept of demographic development in the face of demographic ageing.
It is not a question of double operations advertising or the promotion of operators of each sector or of the public authorities.
Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in principle, was also in favour of the Commission proposal.
That is why it is very important to offer compensation and it can be put into practice very properly through measures and promotion of advertising.
I believe that in the context of the marketing and sales should be given a place much more central to lifelong training within the education programmes, given that the new technologies, the management of the promotion, offer new opportunities for a modern absolutely logistics.
First of all, I congratulate Mr Dary for her excellent report.
My next point concerns the issue of exports and the intervention.
We must not pay for certain products that are not demand, or to propaganda.
Everyone has enough food, so that if a product promocionamos obviously we do against the consumption of another.
Amendment No 18 and the first part of Amendment No 24, which are reduced to two to three years the frequency with which it reviewed the issues and selected products in order to improve the effectiveness of the instrument of promotion.
Jutta Haug as the rapporteur, that is to say, as a man, and Mr Markus Ferber, the rapporteur, that is to say, as women.
This allows appreciate how with minor changes can be achieved great effect in practice.
This is temporarily our last Friday in Strasbourg, i.e. that Strasbourg will lose twelve days of the presence of Parliament.
Moreover, I would like to wish a happy Christmas and a prosperous, but, above all, wise to all new century, but, in particular, to those who believe that it is worthwhile to be present here in this House last Friday, in the year 2000 in Strasbourg.
