The House divided racial of Europe
A common feature of the extreme right in Europe is its racism and its use of immigration as a political force.
The Lega Nord in Italy, the Netherlands, the Vlaams Blok supporters of the National Front of Le Pen in France, are examples of parties and movements trained from the issue of common aversion to immigrants and the promotion of policies simplistic to monitor them.
Although individuals as Jorg Haidar, Jean Marie Le Pen come and () will never too early, the issue of race not disappear from European politics at any time soon.
The population increasingly old at home and borders more open than ever, entail a racial fragmentation in European countries.
The main parties of centre left and centre right have faced this prospect burying its head in the land, abrigando empty hopes that the problem disappears.
It will not, as clearly shows racial history of America (US).
Racial in US relations have been at the heart of the political debate for decades, and still are, to the extent that the racial lines are as important as the entry, if not more, of determining preferences attitudes and policies.
The first step to confront the policy is racial origin and understand the consequences of racial animosity, even if it involves develar nasty truths.
That is precisely what a lot of research in the economy, sociology, psychology and political science has to us.
This research shows that the people of different race rely less on each other; whites are less willing to support expenditure on welfare because it considers that favours minority communities; more fragmented racialmente governments have less efficient, more and more padrinazgo corruption, crime and less productive public goods for every dollar of taxes.
This does not mean that the answer is to remove the heterogeneity and create communities racialmente homogeneous, but we need to acknowledge the reality of such issues to begin to build public policies for solid relations racial.
Clearly, the Americans are not agree on how to do this.
Some favor affirmative action programs that give preference to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission of the College and the granting of public contracts.
These policies are considered a form of offer repair by past injustices and, most important, that of creating figures model (role models sobreponerse) and the residual discrimination and perhaps unintentionally.
Others oppose the affirmative action and argue that a policy blind to races, together with free market policies and values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and to help maintain United black families.
The latter is crucial for any policy, because one of the most important causes of poverty in the US is spread of homes for single parents (entiéndase single mothers black) in the Community.
Regardless of what is the right response, the point is to determine what to do about the races is a dominant theme in American policy.
Clear, minorities have progressed in the way towards greater integration and economic success.
In the 1950s blacks could not sit in the lead section of buses, today, two of the most important people of the external policy are black American.
Certainly, American politicians are still using the right 'Charter' racial as a tool tactic.
Consider the case of Patrick Buchanan, the exasistente Nixon and Reagan that became independent presidential candidate in the last elections.
He was recently published a book acceptance, entitled "The Death of the West: know-how dying immigrant populations and invasion imperil our country and civilization" The Death of the West: how stocks moribund and the invasion of immigrants to endanger our country and civilisation.
But for every Paper as that there are other ten that provide a serious analysis of the issues racial in us.
The analysis of policies and the debates on racial relations are very backward in Europe.
As far as these matters are a little open, in terms of quotas, immigration and border restrictions, not in terms of social problems and opportunities created by a Europe increasingly mixed racialmente.
Clearly, it is necessary to have a clear immigration policy to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.
But that cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico is not the end of the American policy towards domestic racial problems!
Europe is rich and is old quickly; Europeans, well-off in generous welfare programmes, are no longer prepared to accept "dirty" jobs in, say, agriculture and industry peletera.
This makes it inevitable have an increase in immigration.
Europeans, however, are prestos to criticize to us by any failure in its policy for minorities and for any manifestation of racism across the Atlantic.
Reading the press European one often perceived a complex of superiority towards us with regard to the issues: racial them, the Americans have problems with racism; we are immune, except for the desbocados neonacistas skinheads and people's style.
What has happened in recent weeks, from Paris to Amsterdam, racial shows that the problem in Europe is far more profound and, as in the US, a rise in the sad truth is that relations of races are inherently difficult and confidence and not through cooperative behaviour right through racial lines.
If the main parties in Europe do not invest more seriously in the understanding of racial tensions in Europe and put the 'race' as one of its priorities, individuals as Le Pen certainly try fill the gap with his message of hatred.
Against the French exceptions
The attention of Europe today is focused, rightly, on enlargement and the Constitution that the Members of the EU are designing.
But the outcome of several galas Skirmishes with the European Commission will not be less important to determine the fate of the new and enlarged Europe.
France has decided to ignore, unilaterally, the pact for stability and growth, incurring a deficit in anticipated quite above the limit of 3% of GDP.
The French like to proclaim the stringency of rational thinking, but when it comes to deficits, Descartes gives its place to ofuscación.
France was among the main critical of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish Government reduced its budget surplus, which was then in this 4% of GDP, in just a 0.5%.
Other countries have violated the Stability Pact, but France is the first that it with an open attitude to challenge presumptuous.
None of this should be sorpender anyone.
France is simply applying the rules of the EU's habit of innate consider their own culture and exceptional.
For example, France consistently veta reforms to the common agricultural policy of the EU.
As we know even children, the CAP is a beautiful and completely inmerecido gift for European farmers (the French) paricularmente rich at the expense of atribulados farmers in developing countries and of consumers in the EU.
France is also trying to return to the old policies of rescue, with taxpayers' money to private companies profitable not to collapse.
The Commissioner for competition policy of the EU, Mario Monti, cannot lose this battle: it needs the support of those who believe in the markets and in equal treatment for all.
Here, the case is simple.
The French Government thinks to rescue Alstom, a company which developed a series of high-tech goods, including the TGV, the train rapid French, but that recently quebró.
The French Government claims that never retrocederá in his plan for a plan to rescue Alstom, with all the motivations dirigistes known: maintaining employment, protect the investment, etc.
Moreover, as Alstom is a company of high-tech, the French government uses the pretext of research and development, claiming that are good for growth.
To rescue Alstom through the nationalization of the company obviously wrong.
The company is composed of various parties, some profitable, some bankrupt: what is obvious divide it.
The lucrative components, such as the TGV will find buyers easily; plants not productive would close.
The French taxpayers' money would be better spent on benefits for temporary workers displaced persons that in subsidies to keep alive a plant not lucrative.
It is important that the European Commission not allow France to apply special rules in competition policy, as seems to be so doing their budget deficits.
The Commission should be given assistance to prevent public to private companies in France, as it does with subsidies of this kind in any other Member State of the EU.
The Commission has already had some success in this field, among which highlights the have forced the German Government to cancel government guarantees for public banks.
In particular, Alstom and France in general, must not be the exception and will have to restrict the same standards.
If the Commission does not act, the EU seem more of the park diversiones of French public officials.
France has always assumed a leading role in the EU's foreign policy, and the Foreign Minister, Dominique de Villepin, increasingly seems more and more acts as the Foreign Minister of Europe.
At the same time, France violates essential rules of the common economic policy and public aid to private companies.
Does the European Commission will lose what remains of credibility to conclude a small pareciéndose arrondissement Paris?
A defeat in the Alstom case would have serious consequences in Europe (and not only with regard to competition policy.
The war oil
For decades, through Democrats Republican administrations and the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining world oil prices stable such as possible; reducing domestic consumption of oil in the less painful; reducing dependence on imports where possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
Despite the appearances, none of these objectives changed under the Bush administration.
Many observers believe that Bush has established a new direction for the invasion of Iraq will apparently against these objectives.
A significant increase in the production of Iraqi oil probably increase the dependence of the EU towards oil, in relation to other energy sources, since world oil prices would perhaps as a response to the increase in supply.
This in turn would mean an increase in dependence on imported oil into the US, particularly the Middle East.
However, the irony is that the EU carrying out greater control over the Iraqi oil sector under the 'oil for food' programme of the UN, into force before the war (in that organisation, not Saddam Hussein determinaba, the level of sales of Iraqi oil to foreign), under which will have a democratic Iraq in the future.
If the Bush administration had been seeking sources of oil stable, secure diversified and cheap, simply could have lifted the embargoes against Iran, Iraq, Libya, and Sudan to allow oil fluyera.
But the interests of the United States in the Iraqi oil was not driven by the economy or energy policy.
The Bush administration acknowledged that, first of all, the Iraqi oil is a resource geopolitical critical.
Who controls the Iraqi oil will control of Iraq.
The power of Saddam radicaba in its control over the second largest oil reserves in the world.
Perfectly understood what that oil meant for power.
With the possibility of the invasion and the defeat Saddam, threatened area oil fields of the country.
Much of the destruction and the facilities of looting oil which were then reflects that everyone understands that control oil means controlling Iraq.
When EU was planning its invasion, ensure the oil fields became a priority criticism.
The aim was not to increase the supply or reduce prices for the Americans, but to deprive Saddam's power and, in the long run, to establish a new and strong Iraqi government.
The future of Iraq depends directly on the fate of oil production in the country.
However, the whims of business oil, particularly in conditions so unstable, not allow can clearly see how the Bush administration to achieve his goals in Iraq in the near future.
The logic is simple.
The US must use oil revenue for taking us taxpayers to finance the burden of regime change in Iraq.
All the projects for reconstruction depend, in the long run, the ability of Iraq to export large amounts of oil.
If Iraq does not delivery oil, President Bush cannot keep its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and the world community.
Before the invasion, the ability of Iraqi oil production was the three million barrels per day.
Iraq cannot recover this level during the time needed to establish a new government.
Any increase in production requires the development of oil fields, which involves large investments, a representative government and legal, and political stability.
Even the Bush administration hoped that these conditions are meet soon.
Indeed, the stability policy is the main condition to increase the production capacity.
Historical evidence of Iran and Kuwait, Russia, and even the same Iraq, indicate that need around three years since the restoration of political stability to the ability to increase significantly and maintain a high level.
Iraq needs several years to draft a new constitution, to establish a democratic, legitimate government and negotiate the distribution of income between their oil regions, implementing laws of investment and to make the economy is attractive to foreigners.
Also needs time to negotiate with international oil companies and with its neighbours, to carry out studies and technical feasibility, and to rebuild, rehabilitate and explore their oil fields.
Thus, even a timetable for three years seems optimistic because it assumes that, during that period, will end the occupation, the Iraqis will set their own democratic government and achieved political stability.
There is no need to say that the situation can be develop differently.
The tensions could continue years.
Furthermore, no one should be surprised if oil production stops is completely, even under a democratic government.
History suggests that the strikes and other similar events which can interrupt oil production are greater threat in democratic countries, those who are not.
If Iraq cannot quickly increase their production capacity in the near future, this will be an obstacle to the foreign policy and energy of the EU.
How can finance long-term reconstruction of Iraq?
Who will pay to maintain a fragile Iraqi democracy?
The US can sustain its occupation if they are not able to give attention to food, health and other basic services the Iraqi people?
These are difficult questions, and essentially cannot be answered until a stable and democratic regime in Iraq can monitor and ensure a continuous flow of oil exports.
When the murderers care human rights
If it were not so absolutely sad joke, would certainly the millennium: Libya has been chosen to chair the UN Commission on Human Rights.
When calígula appointed to Senator horse, at least the animal had no blood in pezuñas.
Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the Presidency rota every year for a region of the world to another.
This year was the turn of Africa for the President, and became a nominar to Libya.
Only the United States and Canada voted against.
For its eternal shame, European countries abstained.
That this decision is given a sensitive moment in the organisation is revealing of the moral bankruptcy of the UN.
President Bush has challenged the UN to show its seriousness with regard to their own decisions about Iraq; otherwise could have the same ignominious end to the League of Nations, which proved powerless in the 1930s when faced aggressive policies of Nazi Germany and the Fascist Italy.
Choose to Libya to chair the agency responsible for the UN human rights hardly helps to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of world body.
Remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyranny, its leader, Moammar kadafi erratic behaviors, combines with political extremists and supports the dictators throughout the world.
One of the most repressive regimes leading, where there is not even simulations of elections and where the dissent is crushed immediately.
Under his government, Libya supported to terrorist organisations in the whole world (from the IRA to various Palestinian extremist groups).
Still under the UN sanctions on his role in the derribamiento a flight Pan Am in Lockerbie, Scotland, ten years ago.
In the last decade, the position of the UN as a symbol of the ideals of a peaceful world has been eroded.
It was totally unable to stop the war in the Balkans, and at least one case (Srebrenica), a Dutch strength of the UN peace remained as simple bystander of the worst massacre in Europe after 1945, when Serbs murdered around 6,000 Muslim men helpless.
A Commission research Dutch later admitted that the Dutch battalion the UN was, in fact, complicit in this crime of war.
In Rwanda, when genocide began, the official responsible for the UN peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the country of the forces of the organisation, it left the field open to massacre genocidal bloodiest since the second world war.
The name of the official that Kofi Annan.
This is a record depressing and pathetic that the UN is trying in vain) (probably redimir to stand in the Iraq crisis as the voice of reason and the international legitimacy.
But at a time when the UN inspections in Iraq as seem to send the Salvation Army to remove a gang of gángsters, raise Libya to the Presidency of the Commission on Human Rights could to go down in history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose life started with much hope.
Organisations not sulen die, and certainly many raison d'etat to ensure that the UN continue, even cojeando.
But it will be just a shadow of what could and should be.
Today, the hypocrisy is the mark of the UN.
The authoritarian doors
Last Thursday, the judges in the Court central in Jakarta, Indonesia I sentenciaron a year to prison.
As the chief editor of the weekly newsmagazine tempo, I am guilty, according to the Court, to slander tycoon business a so-called tomy winata insinuate for their possible participation in a fire in the textile market South-East Asia in Jakarta and promote riots spreading lies.
What will be the case, and my other similar presagian, the end of another democratic experiment of short duration in Indonesia?
The 'riots' I supposedly fomenté occurred in March last year, when almost two hundred maleantes said, to be supporters of winata, attacked offices tempo, threatened with burning the building, acosaron staff and injured a reporter.
To tackle the situation of peacefully, I persuaded to negotiate in the central station in Jakarta police, but I discovered to my horror, which was in the hands of the leaders of peat.
And I am golpearon patearon while the police cerraba eyes.
Fortunately, many journalists arrived with rescatarnos grabadoras and encendidas cameras.
Their emissions led protests that forced our Parliament to organize a public hearing.
The heads of the national police and Jakarta was convened and popular under enormous pressure, the leaders of peat accused criminally.
But winata evadió research policiaca simply declaring in public that its supporters had acted without he knew what and without their consent.
He then presented their own criminal charges, against Ahmad Taouffik, who wrote, Article teuku iskandar Ali editó, whom I, and my person.
The judicial procedure that lasted a year was plagued by a series of events, all suspects for winata.
First, the case that were the police and the State Prosecutor contained documents that had been falsified obviously so that the police accused two official.
But the Court rejected our request to delay the process until that could clarify the legality of the case of the state.
The case against the official involved seems not to be moving.
On the contrary, one of them was risen to lead the recently created (with funds us) anti-terrorist unit in Jakarta.
The other says that was sent to the police academy for staff to receive advanced training.
Subsequently, during the sixth month the process, the President of the panel composed of three judges was suddenly ascendida head for the Court of one city at a time of Jakarta.
One of my lawyers commented that in their 35 years of experience in courts have never seen that sustituyeran a magistrate President during a trial ongoing.
In fact, despite its rise, the judge followed taking another case the same here.
A judge who previously had dictates judgment against the tempo in demand civil winata took office.
Finally, when winata paid their testimony, committed perjurio to deny that tempo what had met.
It is a reprodujo recording the telephone interview in the Court, the reporter made the interview and two editors that witnessed gave evidence juries, the official record of the telephone company was presented as evidence of the so-called and a perito concluded that the voice of was the recording of tomy winata.
But judges refused to request the tempo of arrest and prosecute the winata by perjurio and told us that diéramos warning to the police, which did.
Then judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the Court to resolve the case against perjurio winata.
Given the process so flawed, my condemnation and my judgment is no surprise.
But I still have the hope that will in the end, when the higher courts atiendan appeal by tempo.
The courts of Indonesia are more clean while their hierarchy is higher and the President of the Supreme Court is a strong advocate of democracy and freedom of the press, the case of tempo could become a victory that will mark a milestone in our democracy, as was the famous Supreme Court decision to us in the case of the New York Times v. Sullivan.
The most difficult to make charges of defamation, this decision guarantees that journalists Americans can make public officials accountable.
No country knows better than Indonesia that freedom of expression and a free press are tested indicators of democratic development and to treat journalists as criminals is first a symptom of authoritarianism.
Indonesia was a liberal democracy in the 1950s, before the President Sukarno, with the support of the military, began to repress the press in 1956.
The critical voices silenciadas, consolidate a power without limit was easier and, in July, 1959 Sukarno decretó the start of the 'guided democracy ".
During the first years after the fall of Sukarno was restored in 1966, all the advantages of genuine democracy, including freedom of the press (except for Communists).
But the regime of President Suharto initiated a new repression against the press at the beginning of the 1970s, and ultimately banned various means and encarceló to many journalists.
With the press under control, other political rights were restricted quickly and democracy in Indonesia again fail.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the most democratic community of Muslim history.
There have been two parliamentary elections and two presidential elections direct including the last presidential contest that have been open, fair and peaceful, shows that Islam and democracy can co-exist.
However, the enemies of democracy never are based.
Radical Islamic groups involved in indiscriminate attacks, while groupings with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the intimate circle of President Megawati.
But by Megawati has just prove defeated in its attempt re-election.
Does the recently elected President Bambang continue accusing journalists?
Does my condemnation and trials and condemnations of other señalarán journalists, the beginning of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia to work both cost?
The answer is that the support activists for democracy in the country they generate both internally and at international level.
Indonesia lose potential - a beacon of hope for all activists for democracy to the Muslim community world would be a terrible defeat.
The Morality of the capital penalty
It is often criticized the United States by refusing to to abolish capital punishment.
Many now claim that the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition of civilized criminal legal system.
The Nobel prize Gary Becker is not agree.
European governments are firmly opposed to the death penalty -- the European Union the prohibits completely -- some Europeans consider that its use in the United States is cruel.
Indeed, many European intellectuals argue that not only the capital punishment but the punishments in general disuaden not criminals.
But while Europeans with crime rates of far below the US during the last half a century, could afford to be relatively 'soft' with the majority of crimes, have seen a sudden increase in their crime rates over the last twenty years.
Instead, the Americans have decrecido, due in part to the greater use of penalties.
This includes the capital penalty.
I support the implementation of some people convicted of murder because -- and just because - believe that avoids other murders.
If I am not creyera that opondría to capital punishment, because the revenge and other possible reasons must not be the basis of public policies.
Serious empirical studies on the death penalty in the EU began with a study of pioneer Isaac Ehrlich published in 1975 in the American economic review.
Subsequent studies have found a deterrent effect much weaker, while others have found one much stronger.
However, the available data are quite limited, so that should not be based exclusively on any conclusion evidence econométricas.
Of course public policies with regard to any punishment cannot wait until evidence are perfect.
But, even with limited quantitative evidence available, there is reason to believe that the death penalty disuade.
Most people, and in particular the murderers, fear and death, especially when it comes to promptly and certainty considerable after committed murder.
As David Hume said to talk about the suicide, "anyone rejected his life worth while worth vivirla.
This is our natural terror to death... "Similarly, schopenhauer thought 'on the terrores of life reach the point at which are higher than those terrores death, a man will put an end to their lives.
But the terrores of death offer a considerable resistance... "
Those who oppose the death penalty often claim that the state has no moral right to taking life anyone, including the worst of the murderers.
Nevertheless this is a conclusion totally wrong for anyone who believes that the death penalty disuade.
To see why, suppose that for every murderer executed (instead of sentenced to life imprisonment, for example) the number of murders were reduced by three, which is a very below the figure of Ehrlich and other calculations the deterrent effect.
This means that for every murderer not executed three would die innocent victims.
Indeed, the government would be contributing indirectly to "" taking many lives if not usara capital punishment.
To save innocent lives per person executed three seems to be good compensation, and even two lives saved by execution rate seems to be a convincing of cost-benefit for the death penalty.
However, it is true that the arguments for the death penalty are less clear as the number of lives saved by implementing decreases.
But, even if only be salvara a life by implementing the option could remain desirable if life saved is much better than life quitada generally, that would be the case.
Many people object to compare the quality of life and life saved quitada.
However, I do not see how to avoid comparison.
Consider to be a criminal race which stolen and kills a victim had been a decent life and that leaves several children and a wife.
Suppose that possible to save the life of an innocent victim to execute this criminal.
For me it is obvious that to save the life of the victim must assert more than taking life to criminal.
Obviously, not all cases are so clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must be part of any social policy reasonable.
This helps explain why the death penalty should be used only in cases of murder and not of smaller crimes.
When it comes to opt for taking lives and, say, reducing the theft, the arguments for less severe punishments are much more solid.
Although the aggression severe, including some terrible violations, can move closer to the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support its use in such cases.
A powerful argument reserved for the death penalty for the murderers, the "deterrent marginal".
If the aggression is castigaran with implementation, criminals have an incentive to kill their victims in order to prevent the descubrieran (which is an important reason why the severity of the penalties must be proportional in general to the severity of the crimes.
A complication is that the death penalty can make the murderer fight with greater force to prevent his capture, which could lead to more deaths.
But, while the marginal deterrence is important, I believe that the resistance of the murderers to be caught, possibly at the expense of their own lives, this is indeed proof that criminals fear to capital punishment.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of executing a innocent.
My support to the death penalty is considerably weaken if the rate of executions of innocent were as high as many claim.
However, I believe that the process of appeal in the EU offers enormous protection, not against both condemnations wrong but against undue executions, so that there are very few cases documented, if any, of innocent people who have been implemented.
And this process has been strengthened much with the development of identification based on DNA.
Again, the debate on the death penalty is essentially a debate on the deterrent (which can reduce the appeals prolonged).
I understand that some people are sceptical with regard to show evidence, although I think it is wrong on both as on the element of common sense of the issue.
It is distressing to someone taking life, even to a murderer, but sometimes very nasty acts required to prevent behaviors even worse than just the life of innocent victims.
Putin versus people
Helped to select happen to Vladimir Putin, Boris Yeltsin, the first Russian President democratically elected.
Since the structures of the KGB and the Mafia now govern Russia and manipulated the judicial system, Yeltsin was supposed to define who would be his successor to avoid legal prosecutions in future.
But those seleccionamos to Putin had the task of finding a person who continuase reforms of Yeltsin, not someone is escudara to him and his family.
In fact, Yeltsin had no fear and not sought their survival staff, but the idea that the democratic introduced in Russia.
However, this idea is now threatened due to chose successor.
I do not my responsibility for having supported Putin.
We were not close friends, but we work together in critical situations and never dudé of its sincerity.
Putin acts guided by their convictions.
The problem is that these, including its belief that Russia can prosper only if it is governed by a power caused in a single source, are wrong.
This great mistake being to Russia to ruin policy.
Of course, no one with a high post is, even some fundamental mistakes, and this is particularly true in tumultuous periods.
Yeltsin was not an exception, but he recognized.
For example, when withdrew on the eve of new year 1999 called forgiveness for having started the war in Chechnya.
In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognize and acknowledge their mistakes and persists in the implementation of a policy that long after its failure is clear for everyone.
One of the mistakes of Yeltsin was not put moral priorities at the top of its agenda of reforms.
Russia should have been repentant Stalinism and Gulag system of forced labour camps.
The entire nation, without exceptions, should have been repentant, the way the Germans have done since 1945.
This omission is important because it allowed the little happy Putin belief in a central authority to condujera recaptura by the state security services.
In fact, a direct result of repentance national was the Gulag should have been the prohibition of the Communist Party and the descalificación of those who have worked in the KGB to exercise political positions.
Although these filters politicians are a complex issue in post-communist societies, where both the victimization as the partnership are so widespread and limits between them are so borrosos, it could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
The doing nothing left to security structures Russian unscathed and with the ability to make a return political, which currently have achieved.
The resurrection policy structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence dissent, once again have become to Russia in a country of dissidents.
It is impossible to silence politicians and the independent media without strangle independent sources of funding, and that is why the Kremlin, Putin has concentrated its attacks on the so-called "oligarchs.
The arrest of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and trial were orchestrated precisely for this reason.
To eliminate sources of financing, independent security services that dominate the Kremlin expect destroy independent political life in Russia.
Without bases of independent thought afianzando, is a climate of fear.
But the fear deteriorating: not only creates the conditions for a bad government.
Yeltsin understood in intuitiva that fear and decision-making centralized and top-down were not ways to govern a modern state and consequently insisted on reform relations between the citizens and the state.
Yet Putin understands that a political system is so centralized unable to understand and correct mistakes now as it was in the Soviet era.
Putin, that is not a man well educated, being Russia, with a sincere and profound conviction, the same disintegration that sobrevino with the collapse of the Soviet state.
The people is beginning to realize this.
People see the desire to create a modern state Putin strong and effective cannot be reality, since it is not a modern state ruled from above but by a citizenship informed that forcing its rulers to recognize and correct its mistakes.
Putin also appears suspect the powerlessness of his regime.
This is one of the reasons why that Russia has become so aggressive with its neighbours, Ukraine and Georgia, and seems to maintain a military presence in places like the separatist Transnistria region of Moldova.
To launch its weight on its closest neighbours, the Kremlin thinks it can persuade the Russians of his omnipotence.
Given what castrado is the debate on Russia and the ability to manipulate the Kremlin elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who want to preserve the idea democratic in the country.
It makes no sense cling empty illusions.
Opponents Putin must decide what they want and declare that, if the regime not adheres to the Constitution, the right to obligarlo to do so, by any means that necessary.
Today, the question of power in Russia can no longer be decided solely at the ballot box.
As in Ukraine, and Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon will decide on the streets.
Tax and expenditure India
A level too high tax can reduce incentives and hinder the growth.
But too low a level can give the same result.
The governments scarce tax revenues cannot supply basic public services.
Worse still, the scarce tax revenues in poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in the tax collection systems (more than the low tax rates) which also promote little productivity in companies.
India illustrates the importance of a system of collection of taxes well designed.
In Bangalore, companies in the high-technology installations built quality with international meadows good care and communication networks of high speed.
However, outside these installations there drenajes open, without collect waste and streets in poor state.
While companies to transmit information technology instantly terrabytes continents to remote, local transport works at an almost medieval.
As a result, businesses in Bangalore have their own bus services, and hire private providers of drinking water and generate fitted to protect the disruptions in the electricity supply.
The state cannot fix the disaster because is bankrupt.
Government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenue engaged in the payment of interest.
But the debt is not a result of excessive expenditure in the past.
The Government of India is spending of around 15% of GDP, compared to an average of around 40% of GDP in the OECD.
Rather, the financial difficulties of India arise a tax system and badly designed badly administered.
The rates and rules for staff and corporate income taxes are reasonable under international criteria.
However, the Government of India collects income taxes that arrive just about the 3.7% of GDP, more or less half of what is perceived South Korea and other Asian Tigers.
Agriculture in India represents around 25% of GDP, but even rich farmers pay taxes.
Companies aimed at export in the software industry and in other enjoy tax privileges, although their employees themselves pay taxes envelopes their personal income.
Despite the rates which are reasonable, evasion is widespread.
This happens because the government has not invested in staff or systems in order to detect tax evaders from those who seldom go to prison and often can take bribes to break the aprieto when the they catch.
A more subtle, the evasion of '' direct taxes on income and the profits reflects the disorder in the system of indirect taxation '' on the production and consumption.
The tax consumption represents more than 60% of the indirect taxation to India, which in turn is the same proportion of total tax revenues.
The basic tax consumption is fixed to 16% of the value of the production of a company.
Then there are several concessions, exemptions and surcharges.
For example, applies a 'rights dealers' rate of 8% to rubros as food products, the cerillos, the hilados of cotton and computers.
In addition, applies a 'special tax on consumption "(8%) IEC of products which include the filamentos for polyester, cars, acondicionadores of air and tyres.
Also applies a 'additional tax on consumption' (iac, do not confuse the IEC) of special importance to "products".
The tax exemptions consumption are numerous and complex, and include to companies with total annual income of less than 10 million rupias and businesses located in areas conflicting or backward.
Overall, the exemptions that divide in 70 categories, 259 subdivididas in items, 52 conditions and seven lists, each of which contains several articles.
The exemptions invite to abuse.
By an amount of money, can convince officials, who have a low level of considerable discretion to implement the conditions favourable to make interpretations.
The goods with high rates (for example, the do pulido) sold as goods with lower rates (for example, as do without pulir).
The tax evasion of consumption is more contagious that the evasion of income taxes and profits.
If a company evade taxes on consumption and the tax rate is high compared to the margins of gain before taxation of its industry, competitors also have to do so, just to survive.
As the evasion increases, governments impose additional rights "" or "special which generate more evasion.
The collection of direct taxes also being affected.
The bribery that pays the taxman of consumption taxes, the difference between the value of do pulido and without pulir inaccurate and reports on revenue create real money "black 'which cannot be de in statements of taxes.
In addition to affect the ability of the state to provide basic public services, the tricks to evade indirect taxation also discourage companies to adopt technologies more productive, requiring methods with large-scale operations.
But, because it is easier to evade indirect taxes several small units operating instead of a large, economies of scale cannot be created.
Valga highlight that in the software industry, where all units are exempt from indirect taxes, Indian companies operate on a scale efficient.
India could emulate the example of China, where the rationalization of indirect taxation in 1994 created the conditions for a great boom?
Or perhaps the governments of a coalition of vigorous democracy are not able to make this reform?
Last year, the government of India, headed by the BJP, adopted legislation that ordenaba severe cuts in the budget deficit.
Appointed a special group to formulate the necessary changes in policies of taxation and expenditure.
In July of this year, the Group proposed increasing taxes (instead of cutting spending) through, among other things, the elimination of most of the exemptions for indirect taxation.
The new government of India, headed by Congress also seems to be for these proposals.
If the Congress and the opposition parties are concretan, it will be a breakthrough to maintain economic growth of the country and to dispel the notion that democracies cannot do what is needed to promote development.
What is wrong with with Turkey?
On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most famous writers of Turkey, will be presented in a court of Istanbul to face the charge of "insult the national identity 'having shown supporter of an open debate on Turkish genocide 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and 1916.
Pamuk can face a judgment of three years in prison.
The attitude of Turkey on fining and send to prison who do not follow the official line confirms my opposition to opening negotiations on its accession as a Member of the European Union.
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of candidate member of the EU, involving accedería to the Union at a future date and not specified.
Subsequently, the Council asked the Commission to decide to October 2004 if Turkey were satisfied a sufficient political criteria including democracy, the rule of law and respect for minority rights ethical for its membership.
This decision was one of the last of the Commission, Romano Prodi, of which I was a member.
Of its 29, 30 Member said that Turkey had satisfied the criteria sufficiently as to progress in the process.
I was the only in dissent.
The Commission's own report on Turkey, prepared by Günter Verheugen, that in this then in charge of the enlargement of the EU, plasmó my decision.
The document referred to in 2003 around 21.870 were applications for asylum in the EU, of which 2.127 were accepted.
In other words, the EU governments themselves recognized in 2003 that the Turkish government had pursued by more than 2 of its citizens.
Meanwhile, the Commission published a report on progress on Turkey which claimed that the reforms continuaban, although to a lesser pace, under the direction of government moderate Islamic Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
However, the report also raised serious aprensiones: continuaban violations of human rights, including torture and the influence of the military remained too high; freedom of expression does not meet a universal, religious minorities and cultural not Muslim suffered discrimination; and there was a clear and tajante opposition by the power to violence against women.
There have been many changes since the start of talks on accession to the EU, conducted in October.
Beyond the current persecution to Pamuk, abound the unacceptable behaviour.
In March 2005, the police violently dispersó a demonstration that celebrated on International Women's Day.
In May, the largest trade union of teachers was prohibited by promoting education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.
In fact, intolerance comes up to the highest posts the Turkish Government.
The Foreign Minister, Abdullah Gül, abruptly cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen was when a journalist Kurdish between the public and the Danes refused expulsarlo.
These actions and attitudes justify broadly my disagreement in October 2004.
However, even if they were overcome, Turkey should not be admitted to the EU, because it is not a European country.
Christianity, the feudalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, democracy and industrialization we have become what we as Europeans have become, but not to the Turks in what are.
So I am not convinced that the reforms implemented in Turkey by the insistence of the European Commission continue after the country finally ingrese to the EU.
Indeed, I suspect that there will be a setback.
Furthermore, the accession of Turkey would lead to the inevitable in Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Certainly, the first three of these countries are more European that Turkey.
Leaving aside the three Caucasus republics, including states that before formed Yugoslavia, the EU would happen to have around 35 Members.
What kind of a union would?
The EU is not simply a club of friends.
It is based on freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.
The Commission, as guardian of the Treaties of the Union, must protect these four fundamental freedoms, which means that sometimes must persuade and, if necessary, to force the Member States to change their legislation.
The policy on alcohol in Sweden the law, Volkswagen in Germany and discrimination against funds of foreign investment in France are examples of cases that have unpopular to the Commission.
But necessary were
For when I left the Commission, had before me a fajo of 1.5 of these causes for breach.
In short, membership of the EU having to accept entails sharps deeply measures which would affect the internal affairs of a state.
This will be impossible to do so with different Member.
The EU would become the victim of what the historian Paul Kennedy called "imperial sobreextensión."
It would dilute beyond the acceptable.
That is why the former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing feared that membership end producing a breakdown in the EU and the German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt declared that "the admission of Turkey would be more than the EU could withstand. '
However, the more solid reason for opposing the accession of Turkey is a matter of democracy: the majority of the population of the EU simply do not want.
The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America
So where it looks, Bolivia is not a typical Latin American country.
After Haiti, is the second poorest nation in the Western hemisphere, and is even less stable, with a marked by history over two hundred coups State since independence.
In a region with a strong last indigenous, but with a present desarticulado and isolated, Bolivia is, together with Guatemala, perhaps the only country in Latin America where indigenous peoples make up the majority of the population.
Their topography and ethnic distribution are generally autonomy, and even act as separatist forces that threaten national unity of ways more formidable than in any other country.
And, of course, together with Paraguay is the only nation without access to the sea in the subcontinent.
So it would be highly unwise extrapolate the current crisis Bolivian the rest of Latin America.
It is too simplistic generalise: institutions in all the other countries are much more solid, poverty (particularly extreme poverty) is falling and, to a large extent, the battle for natural resources has been resolved.
Even in countries such as Venezuela, with enormous reserves of oil and a government of mentality traditionally nationalist, the status quo which allows foreign investment in energy resources has survived almost eight years of government of President Hugo Chávez.
Although the existence of indigenous movements is a reality in many countries, of Chiapas to "araucanía 'and the Amazon to ayacucho, no country in Latin America represented a real threat to the national integrity.
So the of Bolivia is not a crisis which presagie elsewhere in the region, nor the manida 'domino theory of the ", sustained both by Lyndon Johnson as in the case of Che Guevara Bolivian seems valid, or even fairly reasonable.
However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of "democratic deficit" that suffers Latin America at present.
Elected leaders have failed, for one reason or another, Ecuador and Bolivia, Haiti.
Democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries such as Mexico and Cuba, Nicaragua, and is threatened for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
None of these cases is identical to the other, which include variables levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.
The question is what can be done about this situation, which contrasts markedly with the encouraging prospects predominaban that just a few years.
In the last Assembly of the Organisation of American States in Fort lauderdale Florida, the United States took a good idea that other had to support, and, basically ended with it.
History began a couple of years ago, when the former Minister of Argentine Dante caputo external relations and the agenda of the UN development were outlined by the report on democracy in Latin America.
Came to the conclusion that a system of early warning about crisis of democracy in the region help generate actions before things were to be out of control, as is happening today in Bolivia.
Caputo and the team of the UN persuaded then the Chilean President Ricardo Lagos to take the initiative and promote between a number of colleagues.
It did, but the matter came very far.
In fact, the UNDP report on democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, it just mentioned.
America and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean José Miguel Insulza resucitaron, the plan during the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but was rejected due to the Latin American reasonable fears that the idea was directed against Venezuela, combined with the anachronistic misgivings of the countries of Latin America to violara the sacrosanct principle of not intervention.
Despite the continent could not reach agreement on the principle underlying the proposal, the idea of an early warning system deserves attention.
Today, it is possible that is not what the Community hemispheric can with regard to what is happening in Bolivia, and yet the situation is preñada risk for all.
Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and the map of coca growers, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but does not his followers of authoritarian wishes?
It is not a moral Hugo Chavez funding and the other dissidents Bolivians, but do we really Venezuela and Cuba are not tempted to interfere in the country where the Che Guevara died trying to generate a war of guerrillas for almost 40 years?
The Community of businesses in the region of Bolivian holy Cross can actually do not separated from the threat of their country, but does preferirán share its oil and gas reserves in the indigenous peoples of altiplano, rather than with the industrial Brazilian of São Paulo?
Before events reach these extremes, could be a good idea that the US is not (OAS) involucrara.
The region continues to need this participation, with a compromise, with timely message and based on a proper democratic platform, which distinguish the traditional Latin American intervention of traditional indifference.
Does the deterioration of France?
The French are extremely sensitive - not to say that it is put on the defensive) on the stature of their country in the world.
The French State spends enormous amounts of money in the spread of its language and its culture, however, the French are painfully aware that the global position of their country is no longer what it was ever.
It is not surprising, then, that during the last presidential elections, the publication of a report of the European Commission, which argued that as economic France had the tenth of third place between European countries in a period of ten years, has caused tests of conscience and controversies. shortly after, President Jacques Chirac he accused his rival, Lionel Jospin, to bring about a deterioration in France. "
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that had finished with this aspect of the controversial to demonstrate that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
But the more general debate not gave.
The statements again appeared on 'the deterioration French' during this year's street protests against the reform of the pension system, the growing disputes on fiscal policy, the European Commission and riots in the United States about the war in Iraq.
Currently, the best paper sold in France is a work of controversial Nicolas Baverez, France qui tombe (the France which falls).
The paper of Baverez is full of quotes of de Gaulle and Napoleon.
In accordance with the author, recent major achievements of France were in the 1970s, with the launch of the train quickly, the TGV, and Airbus.
Attacks on both Mitterrand as Chirac on his "shared talent to win elections and make a failure for France.
The success of the paper is itself a symptom of a kind of "unease.
But, of what kind??
Evidence of degradation that presents Baverez are not as convincing as he believes.
For example, points to the loss of jobs as the industrial clearer proof of deterioration in France.
However, the de-industrialization is common to all countries advanced.
In fact, it is better to France that the majority of their rivals rich and, unlike in Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has maintained the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector which had at the beginning of the 1970s.
Furthermore, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, the foreign investment going to France it very well.
According to a recent report of the Council of economic analysis, direct investment in France grew up reach 60 billion in 2001, the almost double that in Germany.
Competitiveness in costs in the country also improved (20%) in the past three decades, since greater productivity has balanced the rapid growth of wages.
But the heart of the economic problems of long-term in France is precisely the fear losing industrial jobs.
France remains a strong industrial power in areas such as the traditional automotriz and aerospace, but is rezagando markets in innovative, where companies smaller diseminan new technologies.
For example, France invests only 30 billion dollars per year in research and development of high-tech, compared with the 51 billion Germany, the 98 billion 265 billion Japan and the United States.
In short, the analysis of Baverez points in the wrong direction.
France has, through a series of reforms of critical importance over the past two decades: liberalisation economic and financial, removal of controls on prices and the exchange rate, the end of the restrictions on credit, reduction of inflation and trade deficits, the euro and the globalisation of forced companies of the country.
The French unease has nothing to do with any of them.
The problem with France is that fails to acknowledge the new world that already part.
The French state capitalism has died in France and it is hard to accept death.
Indeed, France has to be the only country in which a Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, feels the obligation of apology the day after having said on television that the state 'is not omnipotent ".
There are many reasons behind this schizophrenia French, but one of the main concerns the political game from the last 20 years.
Until 1981, in France had a clear division between right and left.
Since then, both the administrations Mitterrand as of Chirac moderaron their ideological positions in order to carry out the difficult process of adjustment towards Europe and globalization.
A "shock therapy" to the style by.
Thatcher two decades could have forged a new political awareness, but the slowness in achieving the consensus to adopt the reforms which enabled the French live in a world and think in another.
This is one of the fundamental reasons that explain the political disaster which broke out during the last presidential campaign, when the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, came to the second round of elections
The rise of the extreme Left, which received 10% of the vote in this presidential campaign, it is also proof of the political failure.
France needs a revolution, more than an economic policy, if reconciled with reality, part of which is that the French 'deterioration' is a fear that the French themselves have created.
The value of European values
European leaders have resucitado constitutional talks that interrumpieron last December because of a dispute, the rights of vote.
Of course, these disputes are subject to arrangements, which will probably be.
What is still necessary to establish a clear understanding of what it seeks to achieve the Constitution.
Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: the solidarity and subsidiarity.
Both principles are at the crossing of philosophy, politics, the economy, and the sociology of law.
For years have been present in the legal and institutional frameworks of the European Union - Treaties, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights (the CITES in its preamble), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.
In short, are part of the history and the ideals of the EU.
But what is really mean solidarity and subsidiarity?
Consider the solidarity that is open to at least two interpretations: solidarity static, which only concerns the distribution of income and wealth, and the broader concept of solidarity dynamic, which also relates to the production of income and wealth.
In the history of post-war of European integration, solidarity dynamic force had in the first period (the European Coal and Steel Community) both in its strategy for economic development (reconstruction) as in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.
This does not mean that the dynamic solidarity would suppressed subsequently: the European Monetary Union, for example, is another of its expressions.
So, although some countries not benefited immediately with the euro, accepted in any case because they were convinced that in the long run would have positive effects.
In other words, the solidarity means dynamic promote policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.
However, as it suggests GDP growth in the EU, solidarity dynamic has weakened in the last decade.
What is worrying is the delay in research.
Compliance with the Lisbon strategy, the EU adopted in 2000, and which promised to create the most competitive economy in the world is threatened by an increasing emphasis on solidarity static, which is reflected in the high costs of social security and the high taxes needed to finance it.
The predominance of solidarity static is due to an aging population, which aunada a slower growth, has generated structural fiscal imbalances.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards the people on greater solidarity dynamic which benefit young people.
After all, the Union cannot allow the consumer to overcoming the investment necessary to guarantee the future prosperity.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity, which also has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
The vertical subsidiarity relates to the distribution of power between the different levels of government and of sovereignty: the EU, the Member States, the regions and municipalities.
The application of this principle is known is federalism.
In the European Treaties we find a clear expression of vertical subsidiarity.
But is it enough to accommodate the institutional and constitutional arrangements which are emerging in the Union?
The horizontal subsidiarity concerns the responsibility and the freedom of the human being, and social and economic forces.
Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
But society and the market have their own rights and sovereignty which are not granted by the state.
Thus, the problem is to ensure the autonomy of each area.
An example of horizontal subsidiarity is the European internal market, which created a new kind of economic freedom and increased competition between companies to remove the protection offered to national governments.
The horizontal subsidiarity means that, as well as social, economic, the state cannot violate the individual freedom and responsibility, which must be respected as far as possible.
It also means that a 'must' be higher support when individual freedom and responsibility are not enough to achieve the necessary means to human dignity.
However, this support must be implemented so that promotes the potential of natural individuals, society and the market.
But that is only possible when the role of the horizontal subsidiarity is clearly defined, which is not in the European Treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the work of the European Convention.
In short, solidarity has become redistribution instead of growth (that is the way in which the present generation expresses its solidarity with future generations), while the subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, more than a careful definition of borders between state, civil society and the market.
Today, the definitions of both values favor State.
In effect, focusing on growth based on market is identified with often values semi outside the United States.
But these values are deeply rooted in Europe, and we need them in the light of new.
The EU must restore its economic vitality through a model of solidarity and subsidiarity that is more balanced for the market and society, and to reduce the influence of socio-economic State.
The institutions of the State must provide public goods (such as defence, justice and fiscal and monetary policy), society must provide social goods (as culture, education and aid to the needy) and the market must provide economic goods (which are related to the profits, growth and employment.
In the 21st century, Europe must reconsider the value of both principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if it wants to achieve the goal of historic integration: freedom and welfare necessary to overcome the differences and political divisions that led the tragedies of the twentieth century.
That is the spirit in which must be the draft European Constitution.
The policy of values
The debate on American elections has not amainado.
How did the President George W. Bush to obtain more than three million votes Senator John Kerry and, moreover, a majority in both houses of congress Republican elected?
There is no agreement in the answers, but two issues repeated in many of the explanations.
It is a personality.
In times of threat, uncertainty and the people had more confidence in the President who knew that the candidate who was still not put to the test.
The second issue are values
The people voted by a set of values rather than by specific policies.
Indeed, some (it says) agreed with policies of Kerry in any form, but you gave its vote to Bush because they felt 'to' happy with its general attitude.
It is clear that the United States currently are deeply divided in electoral terms.
An arc of States (blue Democrats) in the north, east and west surrounding a huge area (red Republican) in Central and South.
Moreover, the divisions reproduce at local level.
It is no longer necessary draw limits the constituencies to benefit some political party in particular.
The people in fact tends to move to areas where the majority shares its values, whether Republicans, democrats.
What exactly are these values?
Do, and that is what we hear with "God, weapons and gay.
Religion plays a role, including the literal truth of the Bible with regard to the history of the creation.
The possession of a weapon is the ultimate test of individualism and use weapons in wars is not aborrecible.
Practices gay and other practices' modern 'will reject by excessive.
As the political scientist raised Andrew hacker recently: "the candidacy of Bush was elaborate to achieve a majority to giving some 60 million people the opportunity to feel well bring themselves".
What is all this phenomenon, there is an American or similar tendencies elsewhere?
A response is that, as phenomenon American policy of values can have majority now, but in no way is general.
Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.
The personality certainly matters and below the political differences open can also have questions of values that have not come to the surface.
But political differences based on traditional disagreement on fundamental values declining play a role in the elections.
For example, Prime Minister Tony Blair, next leader important that will face elections used the argument of the personality and speaks of policies, but above all represents a set of values of middle class.
Talk about "modernization 'or' carry things to the 21st century ', achieved insinuate a strange mixture of attractive But change and stability.
This has left the conservative opposition without an effective response.
Even issues as tax cuts and stricter laws on asylum are not achieving fibre of values that the Republican Party in the United States has achieved coming.
The picture is similar in Germany, where the influence of values open policy is even less.
The debate German remains largely a debate of policies.
When opposition offers Government talks on the reform of the system of health or more recently on the combating of unemployment, competition is about underlying capacities, rather than on values.
However, below the battlefields, common of political debate in England and Germany and elsewhere in Europe marauding clashes of values.
Parties fighting for those who can make "feel well bring ourselves', but perhaps not been fully realize that this is only partly a question of policies.
It is unlikely that religion becoming a central factor of European policy; surveys show that the religious observance is one of the few large differences between Americans and Europeans.
Weapons also have a place in the different European mind; what Europeans consider important is its absence.
It is also a distinctive spate of pacifists values in the continent.
But the issue of political correctness ("gays") also plays a role now underestimated.
Most importantly, it divides Europe to Europeans as the 'national' question arises in each State the continent.
It is a matter of values, inspired by the fear.
People want to know where it belongs, and in this process become against the United States and Europe or against Europe and towards their country.
In any way, we in the field of policies, and even the policy and ingresamos shady domain of symbols and myths.
This, in any case, is the main risk facing democratic countries, since the policy of values is dangerous.
Reintroduces fundamental divisions in democratic societies whose greatest achievement was precisely eradicate fundamentalism policy.
A public debate must be a dispute about enlightened policies framed in a Community of values.
Therefore insist that this is a main policy aim of freedom.
It was the approaching interests
A golondrina not summer, a month ago and the normal growth of employment and prices in the United States does not mean that the Federal Reserve is no longer concerned about the economic and the malestares deflation.
But the day will come when the that begin to global interest rates rise, as central bankers to prepare for resist the slow upward trend in inflation.
When that day comes - whether in the autumn, in 2005 or 2006 or 2007 United States and the global economy will face vulnerabilities financial product of success that in the last three years has had the monetary stimulation to stop reductions in production and to moderate unemployment.
Short-term interest rates are low, amazingly: barely 2% in the euro zone, 1% of zero in the US and Japan.
Expansionary monetary policy has been successful, but only when it is up to reduce interest rates to historically low levels - to persuade investors to the costs of credits will their current levels for a long time.
The main outcome of stimuli monetary has been raising asset prices fixed: anything that produce returns, dividends or income is much more attractive - and the same, much more valuable in terms of money - interest rates are very low and is expected to continue well.
This explains the large gaps that exist between the current price of goods roots in the US actions in New York, London and Frankfurt, and the long-term bonds everywhere, and what one would normally are its fundamental values.
What will happen when the banks begin to raise interest rates?
In 1994, increases in rates short-term led increases in the long term - falls in prices of long-term bond of at least double the than models common predecían at that time.
Furthermore, the rates of interest in developing peripheral economies grew much more than the industrial core advanced.
The first danger is that worry in 2005 forward - is more likely to raise interest rates, is another wave of financial crises in emerging markets.
For countries such as Mexico, Turkey, and Argentina, Brazil, Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and the record of the 1990s shows that the differentials interest rates can extend and capital flows can reverse extremely rapid, regardless of the officials of the IMF and the analysis of the most important banks see with good eyes policies of a country.
The differentials interest rates of emerging markets nowadays are abnormally low.
International capital flows - to include those who come to us are not yet at the level which is associated with the "irrational exuberance", but there is still time for this to happen before they begin to raise interest rates.
This is an alarming prospect, because the lesson that we left the 1990s was that nobody should overestimate the stability of international financial flows.
The second danger is drift of high value of goods in the advanced industrial core.
The flow of thought dominant in the Federal Reserve - which I agree it appears that the computer is technological revolution, that the rate of growth of production potential in the EU is still very rapid and that, therefore, the gap is relatively broad production.
This means that, in fact, it will be necessary to remain low interest rates for a considerable period.
Furthermore, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and have extracted interest rates over the last vestiges of risk premiums inflation.
As a result, even after that levels of production return to its potential, interest rates will remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980s and 1990s.
All this, of course, good news for those who possess assets as long-term bonds, actions and real estate.
In fact, raise prices in the long term of goods was just the aim of lower interest rates: after all, to make richer holders of bonds and above all to owners real estate is an encouragement to the expenditure.
But what is bad, even if it is expected that interest rates remain low for a time, it will remain so low indefinitely.
The case is that when they raise interest rates, the value of goods will fall.
In these periods - particularly when the value of assets of substantial falls rapidly and we can see exactly the skill of our central bankers to meet its main task: to reduce the volatility financial and to promote economic stability.
In these times we percatamos the number of people who have long-term bonds, estate or actions because we consider that current prices are attractive in relation to the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
This is a crucial issue for designers of policies, because those goods acquired long term because what seemed to be an increase in permanent prices are those which will have to sell on prices will be evidence of going backwards.
In particular, the US trade deficit is sight as enormous source of instability if the prices of goods of long-term fall significantly.
Certainly the challenges to face designers economic policy in the world in the coming years will be different to those who have encarado since the collapse of the bubble NASDAQ.
The risks associated with inflation are perhaps less dangerous to which generate the fall of production and the threat of deflation.
But, as we learned in the 1990s, this does not mean that future challenges will be easier to handle.
The future opposing the United States
Recently learned something interesting: American economists finance International and the US macroeconomistas aimed to local analysis of us have a very different visions (in fact opposing) on the probable consequences of enormous deficit of current account of us.
Economists see finance internaciones likely to happen in the United States a financial crisis, followed by a painful and perhaps prolonged recession.
The macroeconomistas aimed to local analysis, in contrast, see the imminent fall in the value of the dollar, but not as a crisis as an opportunity to accelerate growth.
In general, the situation are as follows: at some point in the future, the central banks foreigners will be less willing to continue buying large amounts of so-called values in dollars in order to underpin the role currency.
When end up its programmes of buying dollars on a large scale, the value of the dollar will fall and strong... fall.
However, according to this view, as the decline in the value of the dollar exports American Iran is doing more attractive for foreigners, employment and will strengthen the reincorporará labour to export sector which will live a new stage of boom.
It will be as what happened in England after it abandoned the anchoring of its exchange rate and allowed the pound is depreciara with regard to mark, or what happened in the United States at the end of the 1980s, when the dollar was depreció vis-à-vis the pound the framework, German and - more importantly) the Japanese yen.
Economists of international finance see a future much more bleak.
They see the end of the programmes of buying dollars in large-scale of central banks will mean not only a decline of the dollar, but also a rise in long-term interest rates in the US, which will immediately spending of consumption and stifle the investment expenditure after a small retardo.
There is no doubt that economists of international finance also see that American exports will benefit as the value of the dollar, but the baje retardos in demand are such that the momentum will happen exporter a year or two after the low in the expenditure of consumption and investment.
Eight to ten million people will have to change jobs, through the services sector and the construction of the sectors related to exports and goods to compete with imports, which means that increase structural unemployment.
Furthermore, there may be a financial panic: the large financial institutions with debts of short-term and long-term assets to be in difficulties faced with a great increase in interest rates long-term denominated in dollars.
This disparity can cause tensions and financial bankruptcies so easy as debts of short-term in dollars and assets in local currency, the banks are caused during crises Mexican and East Asian during the 1990s, and the Argentine crisis in this decade.
When economists of international finance describe this scenario, the macroeconomistas aimed to local analysis of us respond that sounds a case of monetary policy incompetent.
Why the Federal Reserve should allow long-term interest rates had great rising only because other central banks have over their programmes of buying of dollars?
You should not intervene and replaced with their own purchases of US Treasury bonds of in this way, keeping interest rates long-term at a level that will lead to full employment?
To this, economists of international finance respond that the Federal Reserve does not have the power to do such a thing.
If forced to choose between full employment and price stability, economists of international finance say that the Federal Reserve escogerá price stability, since its institutional memory of the 1970's, when inflation was being the clouds, remains very strong.
Therefore, since a fall in the value of the dollar prices of imports and increases works as a negative blow the supply side of the economy, the Federal Reserve will have to increase, not decrease, interest rates and bond sell instead to buy them.
On both sides in this debate there are serious economists who respect enormously.
I am not sufficiently wise to say what is the right side, but certainly know what I hope is errado.
Gorrones the Europe
In the United States, the States have inadequate fiscal policies face a punishment.
Their bonds sold with a discount in relation to the States' better administered.
The service higher of debt that have to pay works -- in degree - as a form of discipline against the temptation to spend now and then pay.
Of course, the discipline of the market is not perfect: the market of bonds largely sees no "'passive future implicit (as promised on pension payments.
However, this fiscal discipline forced, together with their own internal budgetary procedures of each state, has avoided that give a crisis tax large-scale at state level in the EU since the Great Depression.
Now see the case Europe.
Before the adoption of the euro was many tax crisis in the nation states of southern Europe, which occurred waves of high inflation.
But with the establishment of the single currency was closed the way for the solution of financial crises through inflation, since the European Central Bank (ECB) monitors monetary policy.
However, even though the nation states can no longer rely on inflation to solve their financial imbalances, the single currency allowed to use the capacity for indebtedness which properly belongs to other members of the European Union to extend its adventures of expenditure and postpone of accountability policies for their periods of laissez them bons temps roulés.
To prevent this possibility, the EU created the Stability and Growth Pact: government had to be minor deficits to 3% of GDP.
Last week, the government of Germany -- ever was the member country of the EU more prudent and disciplined - broke the rules of the Pact on fiscal discipline on the fifth year running, and did so without major) (apologies.
The finance minister, peer steinbrueck, indicated that it expected the European Commission impusiera any penalty in Germany said that if took any measure, the credibility of the Pact would be at risk.
Therefore, Germany would block not sanctions on this occasion, as it did two and a half years ago.
But steinbrueck also made clear that hoped that sanctions in response to the fiscal deficit anticipated in Germany by 3.4% of GDP would be largely symbolic and not punishments it costaran their government or its economy much.
The Stability and Growth Pact is not working - or at least not yet - remotely as was intended to do so.
And the discipline of the market?
Does not limited the will of the German Government to issue further debt and deficits have greater because the market acknowledges and punish the nation states that allow their positions will weaken tax?
In a word, not.
Interest rates as sovereign debt in euros twelve of the governments of the eurozone are very similar.
Therefore, the market is not importarle that various countries have potential to generate exports that financial flows funds needed to pay debt, or different relations debt current and planned - GDP.
Willem Buiter of the University of Amsterdam and Anne sibert of the University of London believe that has been the willingness of the ECB to accept, in effect, all debt of the eurozone as guarantee what has undermined the provision market to act as responsible for making that fiscal prudence.
While a marginal part of debt German is used as a guarantee for a loan of short-term or as the basis for an agreement to repurchase obtaining liquidity, is much more likely to value is determined by the terms in which the ECB accepts that guarantees for their foundations.
The treatment that now gives the ECB to all these debts as sources of powerful liquidity reserve is a land of any analysis of differences of sovereign risk of long term.
In the long run that is dangerous.
Both the discipline of the market as the tax administration are necessary to create a reasonable chance of obtaining price stability in the long term.
If there is no mention of punishments market for a reckless behaviour that can return or the institutional levers to give voice to future generations, run a serious risk - perhaps not today or tomorrow, but one day and the rest of our lives.
As time passes, the arrival of the single currency and the way in which it has implemented the euro are causing increasing concern.
The policy as a whole throughout the eurozone deflationary is too.
Not being necessary transfers to the common currency is bearable in the regions that lose out and which are already in recession when the ECB makes more restrictive policy.
The institutional foundations for a stable fiscal policy of long-term are being eroded.
And now, and to argue convincingly sibert Buiter, the ECB is giving the market unless the margin which should have to reward those who save and punish those who despilfarran.
There is still no movements of soil, and not the will for some time.
But the land under the euro could begin to tremble If things do not change.
Milosevic and Hussein: the farce Trial
The trials of war criminals used to be a serious matter.
Remember the photographs of Herman goering and Hess Rudolf taciturnos, sitting in the dock in Nuremberg.
Some leaders Nazis were even colgados after relatively short but fair trials.
Currently, the legal proceedings against the evil leaders of the world have become a farce.
The trial of Saddam Hussein and his henchmen party Ba ath is a series of endless vergüenzas.
The accused use a goes after Hussein and shows its contempt in every possible way.
It is difficult to expect a result that is legitimate in the eyes of Iraqis or the world.
Meanwhile, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic became funeral after four years of evidence boring and a cost more than $200 million.
In Cambodia, the United Nations and the government are almost ten years titubeando on the way to trial survivors of the Khmer Rouge members.
The mass murderers who took power in the twentieth century were condemned to die in popular revolts or they juzgara for their crimes - that is, if not were dying in office.
Who can enorgullecer him that the last head of Communist Ceausescu Nicolai, Romania, and his wife were executed without even less the appearance of a fair trial?
The formalities of an actual Court always seem better than the justice instant, although the final result is also death.
Today there are two possible ways to act against a tyrant depuesto.
A nation may lead to trial to their own former leaders, as did the Argentine in the 1980's with the general responsible for the disappearance of 5,000 most of their fellow citizens.
Internationally, the model of Nuremberg trials is still available to generate additional, although under the conditions under which weasel victorious powers at times allocated responsibility for crimes, as in the case of the 'crimes against humanity', which were not properly defined at the time that were committed.
There was a time when it could see both advantages of the trials of national and international.
Trials internal allowed to alleviate their local community sadness of close to participate in the process.
As judges and jury, the compatriots of defendants could also exert greater sensitivity to assess the blame because it gave notice of the harsh conditions in which a dictator depuesto had taken its decisions.
The trial of the general in Argentina was a ritual successful in painful transition from the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience there were many doubts.
Even after the sentences, the general were powerful enough to terminaran trials and after obtaining the pardon the incoming President.
The policy of Argentina enredada continues in legal consequences of these trials of 20 years ago.
Internationally, the decision of the UN Security Council to establish the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) by its initials in English was also received with great confidence.
The ICTY took effect in several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
But then judges have had the misfortune to They would their dream - more anhelado judge at the Court archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
Now it is not clear how would handled the Serbs to Milosevic in a trial local.
Much of the political party would depended controlara the Court.
Internationally, the fear that had was not too policy but right too.
The trial of Milosevic had to be more than just; had to be an emblem of the justice of the UN.
Therefore it allowed to Milosevic to defend itself -- a big mistake in terms of efficiency and the duration of the trial.
It was a limit to the number of witnesses to the tax called accountable testimony on the same dreadful stories of aggression and brutality Serbia.
Take many months determine what was what went wrong and why the trial lasted four years, which is a scandal.
That is my corazonada officials well-intentioned Court were too influence by the Commission for peace and reconciliation of South Africa, a model pregonado in schools of law as an alternative to the desired Justice of punishment.
The South Africans processes the most important issue was not the future of the accused but last of victims.
It encouraged to all victims contaran its history and the accused listened.
In the case of massacres which gave in the 20th century, those narratives can take decades.
To encourage the victims to speak and then give the accused the right to obstruct the process proclaiming its merits as political leader amounts to a formula for postponement infinite.
A lesson we have learned from the trials of Milosevic and Hussein is that should not lead to trial to men or women in order to break their charismatic attractive.
The trial trastornarán -- especially if they are allowed to defend themselves -- used the Court to claim their careers.
The tyrants only be judge them after they have clearly been defeated.
Ironically, was an advantage for the cuts in Nuremberg be compuestas by representatives of the victorious powers.
They were a constant reminder to goering Hess, and his henchmen that allies had the control and that of the Nazis were defeated irreversibly.
The clear objective of the trial was always punishing the guilty, not decide the way in which would write history.
The tragedy in cases of Milosevic and Hussein is that history not just of escribirse and was enjuiciando to history.
The indecisiveness resulting from those who were in charge resulted in procedures - both international and national -- facilitaban fantasies of demand and return.
In the case of Hussein, this fantasy still can become reality.
The division economic Iraq
Those who look to see Iraq a nation divided between Shiites, Sunnis and Kurdish communities.
But the growing gap between rich and poor in Iraq is equally fundamental division, which has contributed to the insurrection continued as sectarian struggles and opposition to the occupation led by the United States.
When Iraq was released, the majority of the people, especially the poor, started to have hope that were a charismatic leader rescatara to the bitter fact of everyday life.
To have been bred with fear, had no idea of how democracy could be applied to society and how could help groups defenders of human rights and other civic organizations to shape the future.
Very soon Iraq faced a new social division.
On one hand were comprendían how people who operate in a democracy, how to achieve power and fulfil its ambitions.
Learned to speak the language of democracy and in the process gained money and influence and reclutaron to independent organisations to defend their rights and privileges.
However, on the other side remains the huge population of Iraqi without power, including widows and abandoned and divorced women who do not have to take with them and their children.
For these people democracy and human rights do not mean anything.
They are poor, sick and ignorant.
They are victims of an education system which collapsed over a decade ago and have few skills to enable them to find employment in ruined economy of Iraq.
During Saddam's regime is not made efforts to raise the living standards of the poor.
I visited the extensive slums in Iraq and I found families living in houses which have barely ceiling, which are infestadas of insects and to which they are black cuelan waters below the doors.
The day and night to live in the dark.
These families, who do not need more than food, decent housing and the possibility of having an employment, expect death hearing the terrible cries of their children are dying of hunger.
When I met the women who live in these houses, I flooded with questions: does democracy give food and housing?
That will avoid men golpeen their wives?
Does it give citizenship to our children?
You will give us the right of the divorciarnos husbands we leave?
My answer to all these questions was "yes".
Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent home, learn and work and give citizenship and their children will be equal to men.
But must work hard and make every effort to demanding their rights.
They replied: "Saddam taught over 35 years to be unemployed, and silent temerosas.
What can we do now?
These deprived live in areas where the majority of the Iraqi people is prey to the temptations bitter.
Many are beyond the scope of the political leaders and government.
Easily fall in violence, the theft and sabotage.
Poverty leads to receive some money to change to acts of violence, instigados by the attractiveness of a false heroism which could not put in place during the long Saddam's regime.
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq made that people are again insensitive to the fact kill.
Although current conditions of Iraq are many young people to violence, I am convinced that the only thing to do is to give salvarlos jobs and decent housing.
The jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives through a serious work.
We must not use where jobs are not working to disguise an army of unemployed.
We must give people jobs which allow them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.
By nature, each individual seeks to demonstrate that a person is useful for society.
But culture that Saddam created the Iraqis are convinced that the only way to obtain authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.
Overcoming these ideas will take time and an active economy, which means that the new Iraqi government will have to be limited to the private sector to grow and at the same time allow a widespread understanding of democracy and human rights.
Religious groups are willing to contribute to this process.
Similarly, we can rehabilitate the technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they also have the opportunity to serve their country.
Last but not least, we must facilitate loans for families to help build a respectable life.
Above all, the government must not make every effort to convince the Iraqis poor the value of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the Constitution to meet their aspirations for a better life.
It will not be easy to that in a country in which many people regard that violate the law is an act of heroism.
But we have also learned that the Iraqis power must not be concentrated in a few hands and to establish justice requires the fight against corruption in all its forms.
The Constitution to work as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, Iraqis poor must learn to make this their fight.
Islamic identity
Currently, to be used, where that volteemos Islam and is abused (IT) As a political force.
Some Muslims to employ as called to act; many (in the West and elsewhere) we perceive as a "the other" must contain and exclude.
As Turkish, I experiment directly on both sides of this debate.
The reason that Islam is a religion in the eyes of the west of the "other" is in the West has been given a systematic de-institutionalisation of religion.
Of course, is not religion what has disappeared of modern life Western, but can do religious institutions on the individual behaviour.
Religion in the modern world is a much more personal experience and spiritual than ever.
However, also in Islam is giving a process of de-institutionalisation of religious experience.
The politicization of Islam is substituting the authority of the kind, religious ulema.
As in the West, the Islamic religious experience is becoming more staff.
One of the results is the interpretation of the texts religious personally that are doing Muslims militants, including politicians, intellectuals and women.
Another is the religious vulgarización knowledge, abuses of the lessons of the Koran and out of context to support political ends.
Who decides what is now legitimate and what is illicit in Islam?
Who has the authority to interpret the texts religious?
Who can make a fatwa "or" declare the "Jihad"?
Today, the activism and terrorism offer, or rather, impose a new source of legitimacy.
So, are legos who decide what means and what not Islam, without the authority of religious schools and a specialized training.
Indeed, it is Islam currently interpreted through political actors movements and not of cultural and religious institutions.
The de-institutionalisation has allowed Islam may be a bond social local and national imaginary to forge links between all Muslims who feel oppressed or displaced persons everywhere.
In this way, Islam can unite supporters that before were deeply divided: Muslims and spiritual sufíes canonizados shariat; the Muslims Shiites, Sunnis and the Conservative Saudi Arabia and the revolutionary Iran.
At the same time, Islam is shifting, with believers are emerging from rural areas to go to cities, including in the West.
Many see this movement as something negative, and highlight the fact that these people are uprooted socially, which leads to the alienation and, to some, terrorism.
But social mobility is also a precondition for creating a modern vision.
Of course, through migration, Muslims experience a sense of alienation, if it is not that of total rompimiento, its origins social.
Thus, their religious experience is a kind of new, private institutions theological, Community or state.
The experience religious becomes a form of social imagination, within which reconstruyen a sense of belonging Islam in new areas and strange.
It is not the distance of modern life, but the proximity to it which triggers a return to the religious identity.
Indeed, the majority of groups radicalismos arise in which, for their experiences of mobility and movement, know the political thinking and secular western urban life.
Disoriented in its new environment, Islam becomes its anchor.
But to anchor this work must be free to Islam in its traditional position, servile and passive dócil to modernity.
To use a veil or the beard, to claim the right to places for the sentence at work or school and to demand special food, Muslims are identified openly as such.
You are saying to all those who are around which are more zealous in its meticulous and religious observance that those religiosity to limit their private life.
For example, the Muslims generally do not consider the veil as a sign of degradation inferiority and for Muslim women.
However, to be a stigma, Muslims has become a positive sign of its statement of Islamic identity.
Muslim women young in Europe perfectly illustrate this transformation.
Girls to adopt the pañoleta head in schools in the French and German are closer in many respects - namely, the fashionable youth, culture and language) to their fellow class that their mothers, without education and to stay at home.
To use the pañoleta within the European public, these girls are unwittingly altering the symbol and the role of Muslim women.
This trend is going beyond the pañoletas
All Western Muslims have a double sense of belonging, a cultural capital twice.
It define themselves through its religiosity, but also knowledge acquired secular universal.
Given that have a double, cultural capital can circulate with relative freedom between different activities and spaces (the home, school, youth associations and places of entertainment URBAN).
Be Muslim and be Islamic is not the same.
What we are witnessing today is a movement towards a Muslim identity of Islamic identity.
The religious be for the Muslim is shifting ground private the public.
The question is whether all the search for identity and pañoletas can be met with a broad public acceptance of Islamic religious practices, or whether the positive statement of Islam requires more essential renunciation of modernity.
What a new era for Islamic sciences?
For some hundreds of years, when the science and mathematics pasaban for a period of great inventions, a region in the world was highlighted.
There are veneraba to teachers of these disciplines, medicine progressed quickly and people are common interesaba in the way that worked nature.
It is not surprising that this region globally respected.
In the other half of the world is known to be punished even killing scientists.
Mathematics were banned because it considered alien to religion and later were subordinated to this.
The levels of life were.
The region was the prosperous Middle East Islamic, whereas a Europe ignorant permanecía in poverty.
Both regions had governments (religious historians are not agree on the role and the nature of religions in this context) but sciences florecieron in only one of them.
Now, of course, the roles of the Islamic Middle East and the West have been exchanged.
Since the second world war, the United States have been the leader in no scientific issues.
Over this period, brightest students out of their homelands attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutions.
Until recently, more than half of the graduates in the fields of mathematics, science and engineering in the United States had born abroad.
Many of these talents stayed after its graduation and both industry and the government what advantage.
Meanwhile, Islamic cultures entered a historic stage in which the sciences equiparan with a Western influence and to avoid.
Even in those countries where oil revenues could promote a significant number of investigations, Arab rulers not encourage these investments, and as a result their societies have not prospered everything that could have.
Recently, a desire to obtain greater respect political encouraged Islamic nations to invest in technology where it is most note that is in Pakistan and Iran's nuclear ambitions.
But if these weapons have political weight, scientific concepts in that support are old and mundane.
It is more significant respect derived from incubar ideas, that the products from the previous discoveries.
Imagine the influence which generate if an institute Pakistani outside the world leader in research on cancer.
Will change the political rhetoric if researchers of Oman descubrieran the key to eliminating aids?
This is an opportunity that has not been taken.
But there is another, and not only for Islamic societies.
The United States have serious mistakes recently.
The "issues of faith 'have replaced the sciences throughout the government, starting with the President.
Political officials have changed reports of researchers important when the facts contradict the official thinking.
Driven by a administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach of Sciences to the "values".
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are scarce and more difficult to obtain, which has decreased the flow of young talent to American universities.
Important scientific organisations have protested, without results.
At the same time, tax laws have been modified to richer to investors in the short term, what desalienta long-term investments in research.
In the war in Iraq has spent half 1 billion, about the same amount to be spent to support all basic research in recent thousand years.
Even if the United States are engaged in a fundamentalist Middle Ages, clearly the risk of losing its predominance world on research.
Japan recognized the link between the political influence and sciences in the decade of the 1980s.
The main industrial of Japan, Akio morita Sony, President of the right of political shintaro ishihara pronunciaron a number of speeches which recopilaron and in 1986, published a book entitled The Japan can say that no (the Japan could not say that.
Esbozaban a national strategy in which it is understood that the influence of world derivaba scientific leadership.
The idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other nations controlaran "the food chain of" military technologies.
The title of the book concerns the plan Japan say 'no' to the influence of the United States military once that Japan controlara military key technologies.
Building a economy based on knowledge using oil wealth is clearly possible.
For example, Texas, as most of the States of the South of the United States, ever was economically poor and was in decline.
Although had oil revenues, the flow of dollars to an economy itself not increases prosperity as might think.
That is why Texas decided to devote their money from oil fund an educational.
This fund is currently roughly equal to the University of Harvard and are distributed between 15 universities.
The effect has been impressive: the aerospace industry manufacturing almost disappeared from California but are in full boom in Texas.
A multitude of facilities and of telecommunications companies have been mudado Texas, even the Canadian giant of telecommunications Nortel.
Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, has a Texas manufacturing the strongest economies in the world.
There is no reason why the is not could obtain the same result in the Middle East.
But first, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a legacy of which should be proud.
The debate on Iran Iraq
No country in the Middle East is more slope of the events of the post-war Iraq that Iran.
The geographical proximity, intense and bloody history of conflict in Iraq, Saddam Hussein, religious and emotional connections with Iraq Shiite and concerns about the United States and its policies in the region are all ties that bind the western Iran with its neighbour.
Given the current tensions with the US, Iran is particularly concerned about the likelihood that the Americans are established a permanent in neighboring nation, as well as by the dominant role of us in the determination of the future of Iraq pursuit Saddam.
Those who are outside the country they may be difficult to follow the debates internal Iranian, but these are there and intense, although not always visible to the public international more general.
There are three general approaches that can acknowledge in the debate about the present Iranian Iraq pursuit Saddam.
The pragmatic Iranian argue that inevitably Iran will have to cooperate with us, at least to ensure the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in Iraq would not hostile and friendly should seek bilateral relations.
Other considerations are vital for the pragmatic the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees living in Iran.
These Moderates believe that the government of Iran should press for us to achieve the extradition of the members of the organization and mujahdin Khalq MKO () have its basis in Iraq, as well as the total dismantling of this group.
In return for this, the Government of Iran should give its support to the insurance peace, stability and security in Iraq.
In short, the pragmatic limit deals between Iran and the US, manteniéndolos focused on a programme which reflect mainly concerns internal of Iran.
Iranian conservative forces overwhelmingly support this position.
Another position aspires a more active role and cooperador of Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Supporters of this view claim that Iran is in a good position to reconstruction easier, due to its infrastructure well established for personal institutional ties in Iraq.
Sooner or later, argue, US and the international community will acknowledge the value of Iranian cooperation.
Iranian cooperation should be paid to the dismantling of the infrastructure of the MKO in Iraq, perhaps the Iranian united commitment to increase its efforts to any activity of Al Qaeda, as well as to expel of Iran to its members.
More importantly, Iran should press for us to give the security of their cooperation as element will be the reciprocal guarantee us that Iran will not be the aim of the US military action in the future.
In short, the advocates of cooperation for a negotiation open and explicit: the support of Iran to stability in the current phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government permanent that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position of regional and international Iran.
This vision is very popular Iranian reformists (both within and outside government) and the technocratic type and trade with mentality more international.
Finally, for the radical Iranian, the possibility of engaging relations of cooperation with us is a pure fantasy.
Us believe that is determined to undermine the security of Iran and damage their national interests.
From the point of view of the radicals, at least that US is expected dictate of major changes in the Iranian Foreign policy.
And what is more, propose Americans argue, is pressing for a change of regime in Iran.
US will initiatives against the acquisition of knowledge and nuclear energy by Iran, and can even try to weaken the general Iranian military capability.
These radical see the invasion of Iraq to us as a reflection of the desire of American cercar to Iran.
In response, believe that Iran must defend their interests of actively, forming strategic alliances with Russia and other regional powers and using the influence of Iran in Iraq to prevent in Baghdad emerja a government pro-American and antiiraní.
The radicals of all factions support this view.
The overthrow of Saddam's regime was the easy part of Iraqi crisi.
Now comes the hard: secure peace and security, win the war against terrorism and to convince us of the Muslim masses that does not intend to occupy Iraq, seize their oil and remodel the Middle East, its image and example.
Meanwhile, is likely to increase the opposition to us, expressed in suicide bombings and other forms of terrorism.
Iran is destined to continue playing a role regional of first importance, due to its dynamism and its political identity Muslim ringing widely in the Muslim world.
What happens in Iraq will have implications of first importance to Iran, the US is well advised to look for ways to acknowledge this.
American threats, or the speculation on another war, inflaman the flames of resentment and the frustration in Iran, strengthening the more radical forces.
If the US wants to prevent this result, must consider limiting the influence of their own radical, acknowledging that American interests in Iraq benefit with greater cooperation with Iran.
The departure of Iraq
Finally it has reached the point where in Iraq tode ostensibly the world wants the same thing: the country of departure of the coalition forces.
The recent leak of a document of British Ministry of Defence on the withdrawal of troops highlights this wish.
The only question is how satisfacerlo
While the coalition forces continue there, it is likely that the violence increase.
But if they go also increase, but faster.
So, the real question is how to reach the point where Iraq is an army and police will be able to rely on the maintenance of law and also the order.
It must move much to even closer.
Despite the value of the many Iraqis who ingresan or to the police, the army must not surprising that some may have reasons that are not so pure.
In northern Iraq are saldando old accounts and has introduced a de facto ethnic segregation in areas like irbil that were traditionally various.
In other areas has been introduced by the force of law of Sharia.
So how can create Iraq uniformados services to that can rely on the application of the law of efficiently and impartial considerations without ethnic, religious or gender?
The answer is traditional recruit, training and impress the values "correct".
But there is not enough time for this.
They need other methods.
In the absence of a system of values deeply rooted, Iraq needs organisations of civil society do which the police and army accountable.
Could take different forms, but it is important that really be inclusive at local level and to receive support from the structures of power distritales, regional and national señalen when there are abuses.
If there is scrutiny local and national reinforcement and recognition of the value of this scrutiny, then it is likely that the majority of the members of the forces of uniformadas behave properly -- and they are able to identify and punish more easily if they do not.
This might seem too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country similar to Iraq in many respects, there are groups that are working to achieve that goal.
The cooperation for peace and unity (cpau) provides a model of the way in which this can be done.
In Afghanistan, as in Iraq, the priority of the people has been common achieve a reduction of violence.
The cpau worked throughout the country over the last three years to establish committees of peace at distrital, supported by satellite Councils of peace in the people.
The initiative faces a culture in which violence is so rooted that ever children learned arithmetic count the number of Soviet soldiers dead.
Therefore, the committees seeking to all sectors of the community leaders -- including teachers, tribal, and religious women, police, soldiers, judges and entrepreneurs - work together to devise non-violent ways to resolve conflicts.
Although the supervision has not been a formal part of the role of committees (date for it in the future), the simple fact that the police, the army and the judiciary are part of these committees are into contact with the rest of the Community, provides feedback and begins to create confidence.
Some remarkable results are.
In a workshop, the military commander local attended a couple of hours for courtesy and ended quedándose throughout the week.
In the end be disculpó on his last violent and committed to disarm their private army of 2,000 Member.
Now visit regularly offices the committee.
In Iraq, projects such as the heart of humanitarian link in Kirkuk are beginning to meet a function of monitoring to offer the local population, as diverse ethnic, the opportunity to present their complaints and to help to resolve them.
But all too often, even when it is a failure judicial, it applies to cause of intimidation.
US and British forces have already done much positive work to strengthen civil society.
Is not heard talk of workshops for habilitar to women or the organisation of successful elections of small-scale throughout the country.
But to mobilise civil society is a huge challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, needs to be done quickly and on a large scale.
Military force is still needed, but so are the incentives to lay down their weapons, including prospects for economic opportunities are more profitable that crime and blackmail.
Fortunately, create capacity for civil society is so cheap as important.
The heart of all humanitarian link to atiende Kirkuk at an annual cost of barely 75,000 dollars.
With 10 million dollars these facilities could reply 100 times sobraría -- and fairly.
The challenge is to commit to this approach, strengthen and give full support to the courageous people who encara ask the challenge of accounts to power.
Otherwise, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people obtain safety that, after so many years of suffering, urgently needed.
Does democracy in the Nile?
The decision by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak sorpresiva to propose an amendment which would enable constitutional direct hold presidential elections and competitive can be a huge step forward for democracy in Egypt and the Arab world.
The Western, used to pluralist democracy, they may be difficult to grasp the enormity of change potential that can mean in a country accustomed to military government for more than 50 years.
Under the current system, Egyptian citizens can only stand on a presidential referendum every six years and vote for or against the single name that appears in the ballot.
This explains why someone as Mubarak always got more than 90% of votes, although it has been a participation indifferent.
The leaders of Syria and Iraq have gone even better with this system, certainly because demanded that the names and directions of voters to aparecieran calce of every vote.
Many have argued for a long time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not much until Egypt is fully committed to the process.
Egypt could not really the path of democratization without reforming its first Constitution - to reduce the powers of its President and faraónicos place limits their period of government.
After all, Mubarak already leads 24 years as President.
Therefore, the announcement that wants presidential elections competitive is an important first step.
The regime that can be achieved using the process to its advantage, but perhaps the events are not so easy to monitor when the people begin to feel that has power.
The genius of democracy already went to the lamp.
In any case, Egypt is not the only country in this region that atribulada emprende the path of democracy.
Turkey, of one side of the Middle East, and the other, Morocco going quite advanced.
This time the momentum real appears to come from the closeness and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and to a lesser extent Saudi Arabia.
Unprecedented demonstrations against the Syrian occupation of Lebanon after the murder of the former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri, not to give signs of calmarse.
Also the opposition groups Egyptians have conducted marches increasingly bold and other forms of civil disobedience in recent weeks.
The catalyst for their fury was the arrest of sick opposition leader Ayman Nour at the end of January.
The conduct of the government's tough revitalizó local Kifaya Movement "" enough), which required the end of Mubarak regime.
Suddenly, the concept of the Egyptian people are passive and fearful to act seems not to be true.
Is forming an alliance of local, regional and international forces against the tyranny of "always' of the shores of Nile.
The recent wave of popular pressure seems to have shaken regime.
Only a month ago, Mubarak desechaba demands of constitutional reforms calificándolas of empty.
But anyone who has been the combination of elements which have led to change of opinion, must receive welcome the initiative for the elections.
It is a first step necessary -- but insufficient - for rediseñar stalled the political system of Egypt.
The Egyptians already suspicious of reforms to the symbolic style of Tunisia, where the President Zine the abidin bin Ali, with a long time in power, created a caricature of constitutional amendment which seemed to open the doors to the elections, to create a competitive after electoral farce with some opponents' 'chosen for it.
In previous presidential referendums, bin Ali received normally 99% of the vote. this time was 96%.
Let us Mubarak taken more seriously electoral reform.
As shows the sincerity, must order the immediate release of Ayman Nour and take steps to put an end to the state of emergency that deprived for 24 years and which prevents the facts carried out presidential campaigns.
Mubarak must also support a limit of no more than two consecutive periods of five years for any President.
Measures for creating confidence are equally necessary and include the open and fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the state.
I announced that I intend to disputar the forthcoming presidential elections as a way of opening the debate on these essential reforms.
But with regresaría taste to my life of citizen once that guarantee free and open elections in the autumn.
If these measures are applied seriously transformarán the legacy of Mubarak.
Together with developments in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine, may well inaugurate a spring Arab of freedom which should come long ago.
What a historic choice in Egypt?
The Egyptians will be at the ballot box on 7 September to elect a President of the ten candidates, including it has been for 24 years, Hosni Mubarak.
Although few doubt that the result will be the re-election of the latter, many are passionately following the process.
Some observers have received 6 national training for these elections and hundreds of foreign correspondents in the country are converging this week.
Although all the details of formal a true election are present, important aspects of authenticity are conspicuous by their absence.
Despite the promises made to the contrary, the field of play is far from being equal for all.
Mubarak still count active disproportionate: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly of the electronic media controlled by the state and the 85%, approximately, of the media print.
A week before the elections, some of the opposition candidates have not yet been able to present an announcement election on television Egyptian.
All members of the Commission of the presidential elections have been appointed by Mubarak and the new electoral rules have removed all candidates independent.
Since the year 2000, the judges 8,000 of Egypt must monitor and certify the election results, according to a resolution of the Supreme Court.
It was an important step towards the holding of elections fairer, because the professional association of the judiciary has continued count quite independence, despite the attempts of the executive power arrebatársela over half a century.
So the regime of Mubarak has had to resort to various stratagems to neutralize the association of the judges.
One was to extend the definition of 'judiciary' to include thousands of employees loyal Government have titles of graduates in law, but not experience judicial, which leaves the real unarmed judges therefore protest if boycotting office, the task of monitoring will fall again in the police the infamous Ministry of the Interior.
So, in the past the association of the judiciary, used to say as with results predictable.
In the parliamentary elections in 2000, while the ruling party of Mubarak received the approximately 38 percent of the popular vote in districts monitored by the real judges, that percentage became nothing less than the 86%, where the ran supervision by the cuasijueces.
This year it seems will be very different.
In the spring judges held a national assembly and decided that, unless the regime granted them full independence and the supervision of the process of exclusive vote, not supervisarían the next presidential election (or parliamentary).
On 2 September their demands were end: allow civil society groups to observe the process of voting, ending the interference in the definition of judges legitimate for elections and access to the permanent presence of a judge legitimate ahead of each of the ballot box until had reported proof, and its content.
Until now, it is likely that the situation is a dead end, because the President of the Commission electoral publicly stated on television Egyptian which rejects the supervision of the electoral process by all citizens.
Another novelty interesting on the eve of the elections is a public debate on whether enconado vote or boycott presidential elections.
Various the opposition parties have asked their members not involved: to protest against electoral restrictive standards which promote enormously to Mubarak.
Moreover, the Muslim brothers, considered the group of opposition stronger of Egypt, to urge his followers are going to vote and to do so in the awareness, but not to support any despotic corrupt ruling "and".
It is a clear, though, implicit repudiation of Mubarak, the only ruling in 24 years.
Thirty four and organisations of civil society are preparing to thousands of young Egyptians to observe elections, despite the many objections government.
These groups argue that, if the regime is not proposes rig the election results, the presence of national foreign observers and the electoral process must not be a problem.
The response of the regime is that any external supervision is a violation of sovereignty and national Egyptian observers are an affront to the integrity of judges.
This argument was negated quickly when the association of the judiciary announced that supported the presence of observers of civil society.
Whether the Mubarak's regime is frightened to demands for an increase in internal and external to hold free and fair elections or be simply unable to identify the party of its natural tendency to fraud, current signals are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.
Meanwhile, the Egyptian are experiencing for the first time the emotion of challenge to tyranny and enjoy newly discovered a space for freedom.
The envy of Europe towards the dollar
Currencies can turn the focus not only for commercial transactions, but of diplomatic disputes and policies.
When this happens, commercial transactions are more difficult and remain subject to greater uncertainty.
The politicization of money for the interwar depression was economically devastating.
But there have been cases of more recent perverse struggles of coins.
In the 1960s in the international monetary order became the focus of a guerilla policy.
Each side had theories and well different explanations about what was happening.
Europeans (in particular the French) complained of what the General Charles de Gaulle called 'the exorbitant privilege "of the US dollar.
The general and its gurú monetary, Jacques rueff, argued that the US dollar usaba status as the main reserve currency, led by a fixed exchange rate system of Bretton Woods deficits and to pay their military adventures abroad (at that time in Vietnam).
France was a so-called monetary reform that end with the role of the dollar and peculiar to seek to revive the gold standard, for then very discredited.
Europeans began a long discussion about the advantages of monetary union, achievement that would allow them to look dollar face to face.
But, from the point of view, the international role of American dollar was a trap.
Other countries could change their exchange rate and this gave greater competitiveness to their exports.
The US Government was powerless against a yen devalued, what alimentaba the belief that the rest of the world usaba the dollar to attack the basis of manufacturing us.
The Nixon administration came to the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was unilateralism: a monetary expansion so radical that other countries were forced to adjust their exchange rates.
These battles, long forgotten, have become very soon be present.
The world is no longer a regime of fixed exchange rate, but the dollar is still the main, a reserve currency of especia of Bretton Woods floating.
The Americans in the role of the dollar reserve is a potential threat, whereas for the rest of the world is another example of the hegemonic neoimperialista ambition of us.
In this decade, China has the place occupied by Japan in 60, keeping its exchange rate under to stimulate growth of their exports.
It is therefore the target of complaints of us by unfair competition and its efforts to force an adjustment of the exchange rate to the Americans to stop buy toys, devices and clothing manufacturing China.
The manufacturers of us have decided that internal clothes China constitutes a threat to the American way of life.
Meanwhile, Europeans (especially the French) complain about the large deficits of us and once again it is fashionable de Gaulle the argument that the rest of the world is paying wars of us.
Some suggest that European Asian central banks should have greater part of its reserves in euros, which is an echo of the general failed attempt to force us to vendiera dollars and received gold.
The 60 ended in a breakdown in the system 'and' a major financial turbulence, accompanied by an increase in inflation in the prices of basic products.
All were injured, and the role of us in world affairs received a blow important.
If happen now, a similar collapse would probably a different effect.
The system of current floating rate is more solid and costs of the adjustments are distributed differently.
The majority of Americans do not suffer too strong for the fall of the dollar, since the vendors of foreign goods must adjust its prices to the market for us.
The Asian economies are growing vigorously and their central banks are accumulating titles of debt of the US.
It is possible to continue with this policy, because the alternative would be a sudden setback of competividad their exporters important sectors in the US market.
This gives us more time to deal with a deficit of current account that, in the long term, is unsustainable.
The regions of the world economically dynamic, North America and Asia, are then linked by a Pact that will ensure the continuity of the central role of the US dollar.
The Americans will accumulating debt, since they want the Asians.
Break the Pact would go against the interests of both parties.
This is not American unilateralism, because it means work with Asia.
But for Europeans, who are excluded from this Pact is seen as a unilateralism monetary and economic.
Meanwhile, the rising euro against the dollar creates major hardships for European exporters of manufacturing.
However, Europe cannot do much to alleviate this situation.
In fact, will be the main harmed the new monetary struggles.
The answers that are raised in 60 (revive the gold standard, the invention of a common European currency) no longer seem to be very useful.
Having a single currency has not provided a substantial protection.
The old version of the European response, what the sicólogos llamarían envy 'dollar', will agudizarse.
Will the so-called European Central Bank to its enlarged monetary basis, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all problems industrial, structural and demographic affecting Europe.
But a moment of reflection we must remember that the probelmas of Europe cannot be solved through the monetary manipulation.
We must see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privilege of us as they are: a way of countering the fundamental lack of power in Europe.
So the envy of the dollar is here to stay, and will be even greater as the value of international notes the Greens is falling, without appreciable adverse effects on the people that the imprime and uses.
An epidemic policy
The Americans, as citizens of many other countries in the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some public officials.
The few surprising (although some people desilusiona) to be given a charge of federal judge or diplomatic high level a candidate who happens evidence of loyalty on principles which are important to the party President and Prime Minister.
But almost everyone agrees that it sciences are another, and in this, the United States are becoming aleccionador an example to the rest of the world.
Scientists appointments should be based on objective criteria of training, capacity and performance.
Obviously, it is legitimate to interrogate a future secretary of human health and services (ssh) on its position on abortion.
But to submit evidence of loyalty policy those who have been appointed to participate in consultative committees scientists is totally out of place.
Similarly, membership bodies to carry out the revision of the proposals of their scientific peer (process which is fundamental to the scientific progress) certainly should be free of barriers which do not relate to the professional skills.
Unfortunately, the scientists us are finding it increasingly barriers of this kind.
Last autumn, the Journal published several articles concerning this issue.
One narraba mass the replacement of members of the consultative committee of the National Centre for environmental health, which is part of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC by its initials in English), without consulting the director of the centre.
Similar cases occurred in the advisory committee on poisoning lead and its prevention, the advisory committee on human protections in research and the advisory committee on genetic tests.
The epidemic of current ideology which close or be reconstituyen Member with the new consultative committees and under the candidates to evidence of loyalty has nothing new to some observers.
The ssh officials say that "is a quite common practice.
Well, it is not common practice in the United States - or at least used to be.
In any case, what is worrying is that the Bush administration to examine the candidates to see whether they are compatible with their values ".
The most alarming is the depth which have reached the findings on ideology, which are invading areas that were ever immune to this kind of manipulation.
Indeed, perhaps the case more revealing of the epidemic was growing political change of staff of the section of studies of the National Institute for Health and Safety that labour assessed grants to study the injuries in the workplace.
It may be that the consultative committees have been in the past vulnerable to occasional moves of this kind.
After all, are those guidelines recommend that politicians can or not take into account.
But does the sections of study?
In October 2002, science published a editorial signed by David michaels and a group of colleagues.
Several were former distinguished public officials who had participated in some of the committees in question and offered a valuable perspective on the issue, based on their personal experiences.
Article in itself was interesting, but what happened then it was still more.
Triggered a flood of letters of scientists that relataban similar experiences.
A candidate to join the coordinator of the Committee on Research, distrofia muscular belonging to the national institutes, told that a member of staff of the White House questioned.
After several answered questions about their views on the various policies of the Bush administration, none of them concerning the work of the committee, were asked whether the policy supported by President on embryonic stem cells.
In another letter, a professor of psychiatry distinguished and psychology narró which had received a call from the White House about his nomination to participate in the Council on national abuse of drugs.
The person who telephoned him informed that he had to investigate whether had to "points of view which could prove embarazosos to the President.
According to Professor, the official of the White House did him several questions and had to account.
An example: "leads you two to three; the President opposes exchanges of Needle (for intravenous drug users) on moral grounds, regardless of the outcome.
Then, the exchange gave turn more chilling.
The official asked if the nominated had voted for Bush, and to hear it, asked: 'why do not you supported the President? "
This happens in dictatorships, not in democracies.
The aim of a consultative committee give scientific advice is balanced and weighted for the process of political decisions.
Nothing is wins - much is lost when puts ahead the result of policy it wishes.
That is why it is that decisions on what research projects will have to support always taken with based on studies by peer, not the politicians.
Indeed, the status of law applicable to this - federal consultative committees requires specifically that the committees are balanced and that 'are not unduly influenced by the authority which the appointed ".
The Secretary of human health and services us, Tommy Thompson and the office of the staff of the White House should give an example to the rest of the world.
What can very easily: serving the law.
Moscow murder
It is time to stop the fiction that the "dictatorship of law" Putin did that the post Communist Russia were less anarchic.
The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and most courageous journalists of Russia, a woman who dared to make the brutal murders committed by Russian troops in Chechnya, is the final proof that President Putin did more than offer a dictatorship ordinary, with the usual contempt for the law.
It is timely that the world, particularly in Europe, account of this acceptance.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Germany is working on a policy on Russian relations / German that will cult of indifference towards the illegality of Putin in the national interest of the most powerful member of the European Union.
But the indifference becomes appeasement when encourages Putin to implement its mode anarchic in the international arena, in its current asfixiar campaign for the economy of Georgia.
The assassination of Politkovskaya pavorosa generated a feeling of déjà vu: as in the heyday of the KGB, people simply disappears in Putin's Russia.
The assassination of Politkovskaya is the third death with ribetes politicians in three weeks.
The main Enver ziganshin engineer, BP Russia, was murdered in a weapon of fire in Irkutsk on 30 September.
Andrei vicegobernador Kozlov, the Central Bank of Russia that lideraba a campaign against financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.
The fact that the taxation of Russia, the general Yuri chaika, if office of research the assassination of Politkovskaya, as it did with the murder of Kozlov, not generates expectations, as would a very high level of participation in any real democracy.
In fact, the participation of the highest level of government of Russia is almost a guarantee that will never find the murderers.
The assassination of Politkovskaya is a particularly omen dismal if one takes into account that it was a strong criticism of the President of Russia.
In its articles on one of the few remaining independent newspapers in Moscow, novaya gazeta and in his books "Putin 's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and the "dirty war in Chechnya, the Russian Reporter' (a dirty war: a Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote on disipación of freedoms that the marks of identification of Putin's presidency.
As is shown by the exile of the former entrepreneurs media Boris Berezovsky and Vladimir gusinky and the incarceration of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, three fates ahead to the enemies of Putin: the prison, exile or the grave.
I am not accusing the Putin government's murder pay of Politkovskaya.
After all, a journalist research enfureció many people as well as between Putin, that is, no less, that the current Prime Minister, Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom it accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.
But even if the partners of Vladimir Putin not had nothing to do with the assassination of Politkovskaya in the lift its department at the heart of Moscow, the contempt of President by law led the climate in which the perpetró murder.
As the murder of Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Beckett cathedral in its many centuries ago, the crime was committed in clear conviction that would the King.
Faced with what represented Politkovskaya -- the responsibility of a democratic press to question the Kremlin and its policies, the government should have been secured bad that nothing has happened.
Putin's Russia already lost to 12 prestigious that journalists were killed in the last six years.
None of these crimes have been resolved, which would not be the case if the "dictatorship of law" Putin was more than a strategy of public relations.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came the Kremlin has been a time of signals deeply opposing.
On the one hand, the world sees a leader young and educated which promises to modernize Russia, particularly in terms of their practical align judicial and law enforcement with international standards.
On the other hand, the President observed in silence while their former colleagues in the Security Service (FSB, the former KGB) Russia does not offer any security to murdered and launch a number of causes of espionage glaring against journalists, scientists and environmental activists.
Between these 'neo spies "are the journalist Grigori Pasko, the expert on arms control Igor Sutyagin, diplomatic Valentin moiseyev, the physical Valentin Danilov and others.
The influence of supposedly civilising partner Western - to chair a G-8 summit in St. Petersburg, for example, appears to have dispelled in the Kremlin's intrigue of Putin.
Once again, the exposure to Western values generated other city; Russia presents a Potemkin facade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the decorated of cardboard governing the same beasts arbitrary.
The danger to the world is that the anarchy of Putin is exporting.
Throughout the foreign close to Russia, it is a form of arraigando criminalizada diplomacy.
Look at the attempt to manipulate fraudulently Putin previous presidential elections in Ukraine and the criminal charges intermitentes presented against the opposition leader Yuliya Tymoshenko.
Let us separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia which exist only thanks to the support of the Kremlin.
Look at the way in which the Kremlin attempts to ransom their neighbours threatening interrupt its energy supply.
All police knows that when ignores the criminal behaviour, criminals become more intrépidos.
It is time that the world recognizes that Vladimir Putin is a man who is retrotrayendo: to Russia the shadows.
So the world today must consider the former maximum in Latin qui tacet consentere videtur -- silence implies consent and wonder if it is intelligent consent in silence that Putin for the construction of a superpower energy without law.
The Russian gaseoducto towards the empire
Gerhard Schroeder, who far less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that is building a gaseoducto, from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea, and from there to Western Europe.
In many countries, Schroeder acusaría it now the crime of conflict of interests.
The apparent lack of ethics grows by the fact that at the moment Russia is threatening to interrupt the gas supplies to Ukraine if this country not gives to the demands of prices the gas giant Gazprom, property of the Kremlin.
The strategic committed in Russia is obvious: interrupt the gas supplies to Ukraine also means interrupt much gas to Europe, because some of its gaseoductos larger through Ukraine.
To avoid Poland, Ukraine, and of course, the Baltic countries, the new gaseoducto promises give greater influence the Kremlin in its zeal of reposicionarse regionally.
President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of former KGB soon will not have to worry about Western Europe when they are deciding what strong pressure on the post-communist neighbours of Russia.
Does Europe really should grant Putin this new weapon imperial?
Worse, or Russia could use this weapon against the European Union to adicta energy?
The fact that a former German Chancellor will lead the company that can give Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is testimony to the dangerous complacency in Europe for neoimperialistas ambitions of Putin.
Certainly, the Russian media are aware of Europe's growing dependence on Russian energy.
In effect, be deleitan with it: After to integrate and increase our business common gas, write the Russians editorialistas, Europe guardará silence on human rights.
Putin expresses this position of more oblicua with its commitment to carry out what is called a "independent policy".
What we mean by that is that Russia must be "independent" of moral concerns and human rights of Western democracies.
Perhaps some European leaders really create comfortable to maintain the prosperity of the Union justifies callarnos on human rights and other issues which the Kremlin nuisance.
Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, on issues such as the 'commercial' expropriation of Yukos, but if the Kremlin to put a price on our values or criticism of the shortcomings committed by Russia -- in, for example the Chechnya tainted of blood Europeans seem willing to mouth shut not to face the possibility that an increase in the price of energy, or even a blockade in Ukraine as it now faces.
As Putin reordena its court, subordinating the Duma to their will, the hopes of the European Union greater the Europeanization of Russia should be abandoned.
Putin's Russia which is building has mutated postsoviéticas of hopes of freedom to a bastion of gas and oil for new elite former KGB.
Indeed, Matthias warnig, the chief executive of the consortium gaseoducto that Schroeder will, friend of long of Putin.
The Wall Street Journal reported at the beginning of this year that warnig, who runs the branch of Russian Dresdner Bank, agent of the Stasi, the secret police of East Germany, Putin met at the end of the 1980's when the Russian President was in East Germany as a former KGB spy.
The fact that the Russians tolerate a government of former members of the KGB, for those who lack of compassion and intolerance to dissent is the norm, reflects the depletion of fuss over the last twenty years.
Now the Kremlin appears to believe that what is good for ordinary Russians is good for independent countries also: to small countries and they will not weak compassion once that Russia gets the tools for intimidating aislarlos amenazarlos, and with the possibility of a blockade energy.
As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to endure these threats.
The European Union has signed numerous agreements with Russia, including one "common" space for freedom and justice.
The Kremlin is very good for pretend that idealism.
Their control on Eastern Europe was always on the basis of the Treaties' friendship ", and the Soviet invasions in Hungary in 1956 and in Czechoslovakia in 1968 were missions' fraternal".
But we must see how Putin abuses of this common space ':' the brutal treatment to the Chechens, the entrepreneur Mikhail Khodorkovsky in prison, the harassment of NGO, false accusations against colideresa of the Orange Revolution last year, Yuliya Tymoshenko, by procuradores Russian military.
If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, must acknowledge that these values are not shared by the Kremlin officials calculadores of Putin.
The same is true when it considers Russia as an ally in the fight against terrorism.
Is it really conceivable that the land of terror "red", with countless crimes without punishment of the Soviet era, and that leads traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, will provide a reliable aid to stop the threats to the world of Iran and North Korea?
It seems more likely that the minds of the Kremlin cold simply will exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase its destructive power and influence.
For decades, my region of Europe was left to the mercy of evil.
Therefore I cannot stay silent while Europe tropieza blindly towards a new appeasement.
We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, we have learned from our legacy that behind every act of diplomatic Russia lurks an imperial ambition.
Western Europeans, who have fought for this legacy, should hear our warnings.
The dependence on Russia - if its face today is the supposedly 'charismatic "Gerhard Schroeder only take the abyss.
The bullets and the votes of Iraq
When the war in Iraq began in 2003, the Bush administration had very ambitious plans, as well as in Germany and Japan to after 1945, was a long and peaceful occupation, during which the growing oil production would ensure prosperity is increasing as they construyeran a a democratic structures.
The basis would be a constitution, even post-modern liberal, and the guarantee of 25% of curules Parliament for women.
In Iraq, today there is no peace or prosperity.
The Constitution that will be put to the vote on 15 October includes this rule 25%, but it is far from liberal.
The key provision (Article 2) is that no law can contradict 'rules undisputed Islam' violates the principle of sovereignty and will prevent parliamentary legislation to comply with international standards.
For example, the age of sexual consent cannot be set on top of nine years Muhammad, because it had a wife of nine years.
Hence follows that girls of nine years are also adult according to the criminal law and are subject to the maximum penalty by, say, to become another religion.
A wider, the Shiites can use this provision to put their ayatolas above the elected Parliament, as in Iran, just because they are allowed to determine the "rules" Islam.
To foreigners and the few Iraqi liberal concerned primarily Islamic this provision, but the Sunni widespread opposition to the Constitution is aimed at other provisions: exclusion of 'Party Ba ath sadamista' of political life and the government and the provisions federalists are autonomy to the 18 provinces Iraqis and allow them to be combined to form regional governments.
The rule of exclusion is a matter for the staff elite of the Sunnis -- including thousands of entrepreneurs, professionals, even artists - because, with few exceptions, all were members of the Ba ath.
In theory, the constitutional ban could be seen as applies only to future.
But in practice, now administrative rules are being applied to exclude the so-called 'senior member of the' Ba ath any kind of employment and governmental thousands have been affected.
The Sunnis perhaps accept the provisions federalist If they were only applicable to the Kurds.
They know that the alternative is not a return to centralism but the secession of the three provinces of Kurdish majority of dahuk, Arbil and sulaymaniyah as to form an independent Kurdistan, with its own finance, Army (the pesh merga) and oil production around Kirkuk -- has the second in reserves of Iraq.
The Sunnis reject the same federalism for the Shiites, because that always consider brothers Arab Sunni have accepted the government in the past and it will accept - unless we have their own government.
That is what the new Constitution would allow because of majority Shiite provinces in the south -- where it is most of the oil reserves of Iraq - could form their own regional government.
The usual style of the Middle East, the leaders Sunni disappointed and unhappy with the Constitution now threaten violence.
But federalism is not the reason why the Sunni Islamists who preach the supremacy launch attacks mortal.
Its opposition is elementary: do not accept the principle of democratic government of the majority.
Instead of this seeking to restore the government of Sunni minority.
For the Islamists, any form of the Shiites deserve the death, on apostates.
A leader, Shiite moqtada Sadr, also strongly opposed to federalism.
His followers are mostly Shiites, illiterate, poorer and violent of slums in Baghdad and elsewhere whose 'Mahdi militia' fought against US troops in 2004, even though they were protecting the Shia, the Sunni attacks.
As priest very young which derives its authority of his father died -- a populist -- the Ayatollah ayatolas alive of Iraq, who desprecian ignorance and the violence, oppose Sadr.
Sadr cannot compete in any way with them with regard to religious authority, it takes a position nationalist Arab against them, often recalling that the highest Shiite priest, Ayatollah Sistani, Persian, no Arab.
Similarly, it recalls its supporters for the Hakim, who encabezan the Supreme Council to the Islamic revolution in Iraq and its militia 'Badr' were subsidized exiles in Iran -- and many of them fought on the side of Iran in the long and bitter Iran-Iraq war - until the Americans' be brought to return ".
Sadr opposed to federalism because a regional government Shiite obedecería their enemies, and the Supreme Council and Sistani, he argues, fall under the Iranian influence.
For like their message, Sadr sent their men to attack the Badr militia, successfully in Baghdad, where the Mahdi are numerous, but in Najaf, where he hates Sadr to the destruction caused by that last year - until the Americans during their men.
It was bad deal with Sadr as bandido; the simple arithmetic policy now says that he will probably be the central figure to decide the outcome of the vote that will take place in October on the Constitution.
To reject it and to force new elections to a constitutional assembly, opponents need a majority of two-thirds in at least three provinces.
It is likely that the Sunnis only win in two provinces, but if you Sadr ordena their supporters of slums of Baghdad to vote "no" together with the local Sunni, it could make ganaran capital in the opponents of the Constitution, which would ensure its defeat.
As political hampón Sadr, of course prepared to sold.
Last year it was sought for murder.
Now wants money, recognition as a statesman and humiliation at least implicit Sistani, and the Supreme Council.
Could receive offers and perhaps negotiations have already begun.
But some Shiites who attacks with words and bullets to have thousands of armed supporters and think that it should only provide bullets.
The fall of the secret police
As was able to see the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc Gyurcsany, when a confession set of his government was lying incited unrest, the frankness in government is not something which emerges easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.
As the Communist post Hungary, Romania has fought to increase transparency and honesty in what ever was one of the most closed societies in the world.
While the secret, luchábamos continuous gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
However, there were finally real progress towards the frankness, recognised by the European Union when it gave the green light for Romania to join the EU at the beginning of 2007.
In addition to what the EU today as a "market economy in operation", was fundamental and legal political change, which I supervisé as Minister of Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the financing of political parties until a shock of the judiciary.
Judicial reforms, in turn, are helping to banish corruption.
It gave recusaciones against former cabinet ministers and ministers of functions, Members of Parliament, judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, police and customs officers, and other public officials, and directors of private companies.
Similarly, standardized introduced new ways for declarations of assets and financial interests on the part of anyone an official post in government, Parliament, the public administration and the judicial system and local.
The new statements are the more detailed in Europe and, more importantly, are public.
The progress of Romania is confirmed by widespread a report at the beginning of this month, which shows that the citizens' access to information of the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent in established democracies.
In fact, the report, transparency and silence, done justice to the initiative of the open society (available in www.justiceinitiative.org) indicates that, in a way, the old democracies have something to learn from the new: certain government agencies in Romania were more sensitive to the requests for information of citizens to other agencies comparable in France and Spain.
Specifically, in Romania, responded 60% of the requests presented, compared with the 31% in France and the 24% in Spain.
Other countries have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, where adopted laws of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after that in Romania.
However, to obtain access to sensitive information in democracies in transition is not always easy, and I take account of this in my previous job as a lawyer and human rights to the Helsinki Committee of Romania.
Many times we had recourse to the Court to force a disclosure of information, appealing to the law of freedom of information for 2001 of Romania.
For example, even when ganábamos a case which had to do with access to records of telephone tapping authorized by the prosecutor, the General Prosecutor simply did not know the judicial order.
Presentábamos civil action against the prosecutor and judge is a fine imposed by every day that retenía information.
But newly capturamos when the attention of the media was that divulgaron data -- detallaban the amount of telephone tapping authorized in 10 years, against whom, and how much time.
With its publication, Romania started away from its past dominated by the Securitate.
Today, within the government, I am aware that sharing information with the public sometimes difficult.
But when it is implementing painful reforms, there is no alternative.
We could not have implemented the economic and political reforms we valieron accession as a Member of the EU if we had not put our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in decision-making, which inevitably goes hand in hand with such frankness.
Moreover, this has become a sine qua non of democratic government throughout the world.
When America adopted its law of freedom of information in 1996, was the sumó exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
Today there are almost 65 countries which have this kind of law.
In Romania, who fought for a law of freedom of information made full use of it.
As part of the study of initiative for Justice, who requested information from the government of Romania they voluntarily offered the kind of disseminating information that would have been unthinkable only a few years before.
The Ministry of Defence, Romanian case, revealed the amount of staff of the armed forces who died in 2003, as well as the causes of death (including 13 suicides, two shootings and two deaths in combating in Afghanistan.
In the same way, it asked the Court of Bucharest to fill on the number of judges disciplined since early 2000, even arguments for any penalty applied.
The Court transfirió asked the Council higher of judges, who offered a full response: a list of four pages of all judges punished, with details of the motives and sanctions.
This sort of information is therefore a product as a motor of the ongoing reform.
It was not always comfortable for those in government, and yet there is a reluctance criticism on sensitive documents.
But, in the former Communist bloc, the benefits implied transparency have been undeniable.
At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secrecy remains a threat to the values of medulares democratic governance and that only the constant vigilance, both in established democracies such as the young, can prevent traspasen its limits.
Save life trees
Nobody can pass a day without using a product which come from a forest.
In greater extent than the majority of the people is aware, the role which wrote the water that comes out of our taps, the medicines we sanan the timber which builds our houses and furniture, all the cause of forests.
Forests produce the air we breathe fresh and species and habitats are in danger.
We also provide opportunities, recreational increasingly important in our complex world.
Approximately 1.5 billion poor people living in rural areas of the world depend on forests for basic needs as food and firewood.
However, the deforestation continues.
Every year we lose 14.6 million hectares) (145.000 kms. square of forests, an area almost four times the size of Switzerland.
The forest management, irresponsible accentuated by bad regulation and the implementation of laws by governments, and the markets that premian illegal logging conspirando are to end forests more valuable and threatened in the world.
Once that forests are beginning to disappear, generally occurs a set of environmental, social and economic ills that affect all of us in some way.
The island of Sumatra, in Indonesia, is a good example.
Companies producers and pulp role being carried out a rampant and illegal destruction of forests to contain the richer diversity of plants in the world.
It is likely that in the way the plants disappear still find and endangered species such as rhinoceros and the elephant in Sumatra, and orangután.
When forests in Sumatra disappear, comprehensive communities of people will be with a little place suitable to live and without a decent way of earning a living.
Furthermore, the distortion of global markets caused by the trade in products produced a cheap and illegal produces disadvantages for companies to demonstrate social responsibility.
Developing countries are losing 15 billion dollars per year of income for taxes, due to the illegal logging.
To make things worse, the demand for timber for reconstruction following the tsunami last year is intensifying the already unsustainable demand that exists on forests in Sumatra.
Similar threats to forests are obvious in the Amazon basin and in the Congo.
The recent evaluation of ecosystems to the UN's Millennium (eem) shows that forests of these and other regions of critical are frank decline due to bad management, and to continue disappearing unless action is taken serious.
The information divulgada by the Government of Brazil indicates that deforestation of forests irreplaceable the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, reached the 2.6 million hectares (around 26 kms. square) last year, taking the total area deforestada Amazon to 17%.
But the battle against deforestation is not lost.
Various organizations, and businesses concerned ambientalistas the state of forests in the world are uniting forces to reverse the reforestation and improve the management of forests.
For example, the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the World Bank have helped the Government of Brazil to start an initiative that created more than 17 million hectares (new) 179.000 kms. square of protected forest areas, such as national parks.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated to associated with this initiative to create a trust fund in perpetuity to administer these areas protected.
Similarly, a meeting summit between the leaders of the countries of the Congo Basin resulted an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible management of forests.
In turn, this was an initiative of 53 billion dollars to the US State Department to promote conservation forest of Congo.
Since reunieran rulers are for the first time in 1999, 3.5 million hectares (more 33.700 kms. square) of new protected areas have been created in the Congo Basin.
However, given the effects of the Asian tsunami December, the weight of the evidence provided by the eem and statistics on deforestation boscosas in regions of key importance, our efforts must continue.
The World Bank and the WWF recently pledged to join in an effort to help reduce the rate of global deforestation, 10% by 2010, and other institutions to work with the public and private sectors in achieving the ambitious objectives of forest conservation.
Studies show that the WWF if forests to divide the world into a combination of uses and types (including areas protected forests, commercial manejados responsibly and landscapes boscosos recovered) can respond to the needs of global forest products, while we important environmental and social resources for the foreseeable future.
The leaders of business, governments and organisations of civil society must play its role to make reality this vision.
What are the fanatics Saudis?
The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have many not just cuestionen prospects for survival of the ruling of the House sauds but to ask if the UK is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.
In some way, it seems that Saudi society has produced a torrent of violent fanaticism which is inspired by the extreme religious orthodoxy.
The fact that 15 of the 19 hijackers in the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the US were Saudis cristalizó a vision of long considers that dates back to the UK as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance.
In some aspects, this perception is accurate, but cannot be applied to Saudi public general.
On the contrary, it would be a serious mistake to assume that Islam fanatical defines completely Saudis attitudes towards religion.
Between 2001 and 2003, I was part of a team made a comprehensive study of values in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan and Iran.
Our results offer a picture of qualified surprisingly attitudes Saudis.
In comparison with those polled in other countries of the Middle East, the Saudis were generally less religious and attitudes towards democracy and marriages agreed also indicate a current moderate underlying.
It is clear that in the four countries of religiosity is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of the respondents said believe in God, life after the death, and in heaven and hell.
But the Saudis seem to be less religious colleagues of the Muslim faith.
The two and sixty percent of the Saudis are described as religious, compared with 82% of the Iranians, 85% of the Jordanians and 98% of Egyptian.
The Americans also seem to be much more religious that the Saudis, 81% of them describiéndose as such.
Part of this variation can explain the differences between nations with regard to what it means to be religious.
For example, the Americans can define the religiosity differently, that the people of the Middle East, with perhaps a minor accession to religious beliefs that is usual in Islamic countries.
This could also explain in part differences between Muslim countries.
But the gap between what the Saudis define as religiosity, on the one hand, and the definition of the Jordanians and Iranians, Egyptians, on the other, is so great that it calls into question the prevailing perception that Saudi Arabia is a highly conservative religious and society.
In fact, actions speak more than words: only 28% of the Saudis said participate in services religious weekly, compared to 27% of the Iranians, 44% of Jordanian, 42% of the Egyptians and 45% of the Americans.
These results, although pointing in the opposite direction to perceptions about Saudi popular culture, are less surprising to appear.
Long sociologists of religion have argued that, in an environment where religious monolithic or religious institutions are closely linked to state declina religiosity, the general public.
It makes sense to think that when state authorities make mandatory strict codes of conduct, people tend to rebel and away from religious institutions officially punished.
Therefore, it is not surprising that the Egyptians and Jordanians, who live in countries where the State not forcing exercise mercilessly, the more that Iranian religious or the Saudis, who face a policy local 'virtuous' backed by the state.
Even in the issue of marriage many Saudis expressed views surprisingly Liberals.
The respondents were divided by almost equal parties in question on marriages agreed, with about half of the supporting the idea that the marriage must be based on the consent of fathers, while 48% preferred to love as the basis of marriage.
Given the rooted and gender segregation on the domination of fathers, this result seems reveal a strong desire for greater freedom of choice as individual which has traditionally been a decision that takes the family.
Finally, the Saudis prove enthusiastic supporters of democracy, contradicting once again the image of popular Saudi conservatism.
The Saudis respondents, 58% considered to democracy as the best way of government, 23% was not agree and 18% expressed no opinion.
The majority support of democracy in a country that is not a history and secular nationalist seems somewhat contrary to what might be intuir.
In fact, support for democracy corresponds to a number of other Liberals attitudes which find in Saudi Arabia.
Supporters of democracy tend to be less religious, more secular, more tolerant towards the other, more critical of the performance of the public sector and to be more concerned about Western cultural invasion.
Beyond the data of the study, history has shown that the liberal ideas become more popular when a monarch despotic governs the people in alliance with a 'religious establishment'.
At the end of the nineteenth century arose in Syria Ottoman strong ordinary liberal, in response to the religious Sultan Abdulhamid despotism.
At the same time, appeared in Iran a secular movement and anticlerical for constitutionalism, a reaction to the alliance between the shahs absolutist quajar and religious institucionalidad.
In view of the similarities between these historical precedent and current conditions in Saudi Arabia, we should not rule out the possibility of reform.
Now the data studies also suggest that it would be strange to see the Saudis demanding a policy more transparent and less interventionist a religion.
Museum the European
At the end of the 19th century, Europe basically saw to Asia as a source of inspiration for their artists or a focus of imperial ambition.
The Asian, for its part, saw to Europe as a model of modernity, as in the Meiji Japan, or a barometer of decline, as in China.
A century later, the Japanese economic miracle was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europeans a place of rapid technological progress and industrial.
Now, in the early years of the 21st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and in Asia in Europe is changing dramatically, at a time when the economies of Asia are booming while the European Union is atollada in a crisis of identity and confidence.
Several Asian prominent, as the former leader of Singapore Lee Kuan Yew, today are warning that if Europeans to continue with its present course, Europe will quickly irrelevant for everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
A prominent entrepreneur Chinese that divides their time between Hong Kong and London was more specific.
In a meeting of senior private entrepreneurs and political leaders in Paris a few weeks ago, said: "you Europeans are becoming a third world country, spend time to discuss issues wrong -- the Constitution, the welfare state, the crisis of the pension and systematically, provide answers to the questions that are wrong.
The Europeans have visions of Asia in general, and in particular in China are more complex and lucid vary from the adaptation to a new competitor and respected and pure ideological rejection.
In May 1968, in France, students -- or some of them, so less took to the streets to invent a new world dreamt the Maoist China, China is in the middle of the cultural revolution and brutal without sense.
Its obsession absurd and baroque was the product of ignorance of the crimes of Mao and the result of boredom in a prosperous society where unemployment virtually did not exist.
Today, instead, their heirs criticize openly capitalist model in Asia.
Yesterday, China was a northern anticapitalista for the revolutionary utopian; today has become a nemesis ultra-liberal for a new generation of reactionary utopian -- the defenders of the status quo in Europe.
Students who demonstrated in the streets of Paris recently do not want to become as the Chinese or Indians, reject the logic of globalisation and refuse to renounce social guarantees that both cost win.
European elites economic perceive to China and India are very different.
Today they are fully aware of their vision post colonial slightly nostálgica of these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is falls.
China and India became genuine competitors that deserve respect, if not simple admiration.
The quality, the costs of delivery times and in automotriz industry, for instance, are reaching the European level.
Europe retains an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but companies in the world class are emerging, particularly in India, increasingly are in a better position hire graduates mit and Harvard, while, at the same time, the costs of manpower low and thus global competitiveness.
Unfortunately, although European leaders recognize the challenge Asia were unable, not use it as a test of fact in the process of globalisation irresistible and also as a call to arms in social and economic terms.
To tell the truth, it would be fair to say that European politicians, with some exceptions, as Tony Blair, took to adjust their world views revolutionary agree with the pace of change in Asia.
Trapped between their lack of strategic vision long-term and its obsession with short-term interests, the political leaders of Europe largely failed gain the respect of its peers Asian, unlike the European companies, they will be much better to Asian eyes.
Of course, in a continent that practically could not bury its past and cerrarles the door to the ghosts nationalists, the European Union is often given by the Asian as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.
But if the performance of Europe followed declining, does sobreviviría this perception?
Perhaps the Asian llegarían to consider the European model as a version policy of Venice -- a place to visit with nostalgia for his past glory and admiration for their quality of almost Museum.
The red and blue
The change of Condoleezza Rice by Colin Powell, the secretariat of the state of the US shows that the recent presidential election in that country remains strong impact.
But understand what tells us choice on the United States is important not only for the US but for the world.
The presidential vote of this year is proof that American democracy is in good health, but that some things could improve.
Contrary to what happened in the elections in 2000, when President Bush lost the vote and popular just won the vote in the electoral college, this time by triumphed 3.5 million votes.
Although some Democrats still resentidos, you cannot seriously question the legitimacy of the victory of Bush.
The United States are very divided in red States (Republicans) and blue States (Democrats).
If 100,000 votes had been different in the red, Ohio State of John Kerry would (although the President with popular vote a minority).
The electoral college was included in the Constitution of the United States to protect the small States with a federal system, but now means that political campaigns focus mainly in a dozen States where public opinion is very divided.
A more fundamental level, choose Presidents without a majority of people something is unseemly.
It is therefore time to hold a serious debate to amend the Constitution to abolish the electoral college.
Some observers also complain of rhetoric and propaganda divisiva that characterized the campaign.
But this must be seen from a historical perspective.
At the time of the founding fathers, newspapers were extremely partial and George Washington consternaba him the harshness of political language.
For much of its early years - not to speak of the civil war and reconstruction — the country was so divided as now and what enconado the rhetoric of campaign reflected this closed of competition.
At the same time, despite the negative propaganda on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a format seriously and had a great hearing.
In general, it is likely that a President with a growing economy is reelecto.
In this respect, it is striking in the case of Bush was so low that it was majority.
This is largely due to the unpopularity of the war in Iraq.
Kerry tried to make war, the low rate of job creation, the inadequate attention to health and the reduction of tax revenue to Bush senior groups of the central themes of the campaign, but some observers never felt that this was a clear message.
Bush retorted with concerns about security against terrorism and the cultural populism on issues such as the homosexual marriage and the right to abortion.
In the end, the security and the cultural vencieron populism economic populism.
The interpretation of the choice has been influenced by surveys of the way in which they are asked to voters (having voted) what issues them more imported.
The majority (22%) replied that the 'moral values ", compared with 20% which referred to the economy and 19% that mention terrorism.
Conservatives social interpret this as it was they who won the election to Bush and that its agenda must predominar in the next period of President.
But a survey of Pew lifted a week after the election indicated that category "moral values' covered a wide range of issues and the right to abortion and homosexual marriage.
Indeed, polls show that 25% of the population supports the homosexual marriage and 35% is for civil unions legal order of homosexual couples (the position advocated that Kerry).
However, for the 37% which opposes these marriages, especially at the heart of the country, the subject red helped to mobilise supporters of Bush to go to vote.
The most important question is whether the EU are divided irremediably.
The map of electoral red and blue resulted in jokes cartoons and on the Internet on the secession of the two shores of the blue red centre of the country.
Some would call "costopía".
But the division is not so clear.
Many States on both sides being won by scarce margins, and if the map colorea at counties and not the States, much of the country is quite morado.
Cities face suburbs and rural areas is a better description that shores face centre.
Indeed, the opinion polls show that the majority of Americans are concentrated in the heart of the political spectrum moderate and not in the two extremes.
But the political elites, as the militants of parties and members of Congress, are usually more extremist to the public.
The principle that seems disconcerting, because should have incentives to move the centre rich in votes.
But many members of Congress represent districts that are safe for their parties and the threat to his re-election is in the primary and most activists and dominated by the wings of extremist parties.
This trend is reinforced by the growth of cable television, which attracts viewers through programmes controversiales infotenimiento 'and' the Internet bloggers that entablan controversial fierce no filter editorial.
A reform to change the borders of the constituencies in order to make them more competitive help alleviate the problem, but a few of the Congressmen in functions would make modifications which could increase the risk of defeat.
The closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate to change less than he seems to believe.
In the difficult problems of foreign policy, fiscal and social facing, would do well to look into the centre instead of reconciling its conservative basis, but it is not yet clear if will prevail policy or the convictions of pragmatism.
How escape the habit of oil
The Chancellor Angela Merkel became the treatment of climate change in a high priority on the agenda of Germany for its presidencies of the EU and G8 to begin in January.
I have here a specific proposal, sufficiently general for world leaders to consider and accept and sufficiently clear to other governments and companies to understand: nothing more than a date in the forthcoming G8 Summit, from which cars fed to oil can no longer move more in the major industrialized countries.
A decision of this nature would have an economic impact and geopolitical highly positive.
The real cause of the concerns of today on energy is not the fall of world oil reserves, but rather that oil production of internal large consumers - Europe, the United States and China - decaerá at the very moment that the growing demand Asian sature the market.
Reserves available concentrarán is increasingly in the Middle East, simply because the supply in the rest of the regions is agotará before.
Moreover, the main exporters of oil are not prepared to subordinate their policies of investment to the requirements of the market.
Saudi Arabia is trying to manage their production of oil independently, while Iran frightened to potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and corruption.
Iraq suffers from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia are impediments at every step.
These four states harbor half the oil reserves in the world and tested two-thirds of what could potentially export.
All this, the costs of production, is the central right of high oil prices and the fights for close oil contracts in Central Asia and Africa.
To believe that high oil prices are good serve because the environment is ignoring some basic data of international politics.
First, in many of the poorest African and Asian countries, oil imports represent a significantly greater portion of national expenditure that in the industrialized countries, which means that economic growth and social development are in danger, while lurking new crisis of debt.
The incomes of oil production hinder reforms in the major exporting countries.
Thanks to its lubricada financial regimes, such as the strength of Venezuela and Iran increasingly feel less restricted by international rules.
The newcomers universe of nations to consumers, such as China, imitan the old habits of western industrialized, with its long history of overlook human rights abuses in order to ensure lucrative deals with authoritarian regimes and rich in oil.
Only the heavyweights political and economic world, the major industrialized countries that remain, by far, the largest consumer of hydrocarbons, can initiate a change at global level.
The change must begin by the transport sector, which represents more than half of the present oil consumption -- a proportion likely to increase in future.
Therefore, the G8 countries should agree to prevent all circule car fed oil in 2025 forward.
This decision not apuntaría against individual mobility, but against disipación a scarce resource that needs more urgently to produce synthetic materials.
Political leaders should not favouring any technology in particular.
Moreover, should offer automotriz incentives to the industry to develop alternative technologies which are based on hydrogen and fuel of biomass, until natural gas for a transitional period.
Countries leaders from a political point of view they provide to internal industries, as a collateral benefit, a position of leadership in terms of technology, ensuring future energy markets.
If necessary, the expected significant reduction of carbon dioxide emissions could bring aparejado a turning point in the necessary international policies on climate.
But also comes into play: our economic development cure 'addiction to oil' it would more oil to the poorest countries, and less developed industrial recently, at the same time that would force the fall in prices and geopolitical aliviaría competition for energy.
In terms of geopolitical, the benefits would be equally obvious, because it would reduce markedly the ability of the major oil exporters to ransom the industrialized countries.
This could increase the power of negotiation of the international community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia which seriously wish to promote political and economic reform from within.
As a country technologically advanced and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is in a position to propose an initiative of this nature.
Merkel, which has a doctorate in physical and began his political career, Minister for the Environment (chairing in 1995 the first Conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), can have more credibility in addressing this issue to any of his colleagues in the EU and G8.
The time came for a sample courageous leadership.
The myth of trade and aid
Trade and aid have become words of fashionable at international level.
Greater assistance (including debt relief) and greater access to the markets of rich countries for products of poor countries seem to be in the first place the global agenda.
Indeed, the debate today, it is not about what to do but how and how fast.
In all this is lost the clear lessons of the past five decades of economic development.
Among the most important highlights that economic development is largely in the hands of poor nations themselves.
The countries that have succeeded in the recent past have obtained through their own efforts.
The aid and access to the market rarely have played a critical role.
Consider a country that has free and preferential access to the markets of its larger neighbour, which is the most powerful economy in the world.
On the other hand suppose that this country can send millions of its citizens to work on the other side of the border, which receives a huge volume of investment and that is totally integrated the production chains.
Furthermore, the country's banking system that supports the willingness shown by its neighbour of rich serve as lender of last resort.
The globalisation cannot be better, true??
Now consider a second country.
This faces a commercial but in the world's largest market, receives no foreign assistance or any kind of assistance from the West, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and it prevents ask loans of the IMF and the World Bank.
If these disadvantages for external were not sufficiently debilitating, this economy also maintains its own high barriers to trade in international trade (as state, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions.
As the reader be guessed, it is real countries: Mexico and Vietnam.
Mexico 3,000 miles of shares a border with the United States, which gives not only privileged access to the labour market and of goods, but also the easier to use funds US Treasury (as was demonstrated in the crisis of the weight of 1995).
In contrast, the United States held a commercial but against Vietnam until 1994, established diplomatic relations until 1995 and years after it gave the most-favoured nation treatment to imports of that country.
Vietnam remains outside the WTO.
Now consider economic performance
Since NAFTA, was signed in December 1992, Mexico's economy has grown at an average annual rate of just 1% in per capita terms.
This is not only well below the rate of economic superstars from Asia; it is also a fraction of own growth of Mexico over the decades antecedieron that the debt crisis of 1982 (3.6% per year between 1960 and 1981.
However, Vietnam grew at a rate of 5.6% annual per capita between the start of their economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the US in 1995, and since then has been growing at a rapid rate of 4.5%.
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction of poverty, while in Mexico real wages fell.
Both countries experienced set increases in international trade and foreign investment, but the situation is completely different to what matters most: raising the levels of life, especially those of the poor.
What these examples show that internal efforts succeed on anything to determine the economic fortune of a country.
All the opportunities that the market gave us Mexico could not to counteract the consequences of the mistakes of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the real appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend the rest of the economy improvements in productivity reached at a limited range of activities of export.
What matters most is if a country takes the right strategy for growth.
Without the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam applied a strategy concentrated to diversify its economy and enhancing the productive capacity of domestic suppliers.
The experiences of the post-war broader support the conclusion that internal policies are most important.
South Korea despegó at the beginning of the 1960s, not when the aid was in its external boom, but when was gradually withdrawing.
Taiwan not received external aid or preferential access to markets.
China and India, the two superstars economic of today, have prospered largely through unique efforts of reform.
It is tempting attribute the rare successes African - Botswana and Mauritius - to external demand for its exports (diamonds and dressed respectively), but that is only part of history.
Obviously both countries would considerably poorer without access to foreign markets.
But, as in other cases of successful development, what distinguishes the advantages are not external, but which possess its ability to exploit them.
See what other countries have done with their natural resources.
The word "diamond" hardly evokes images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.
Similarly, the few areas elaboradoras of exports to proliferate in the world have reached the results are watching in Mauritius.
None of the previous absuelve to the rich countries its responsibility to help.
Can the world is less welcoming to corrupt dictators -- for example, more financial share information and not recognizing international contracts to sign.
Also, increasing the number of workers in poor countries to allow work in rich countries and give greater scope for policies aimed to growth through the relaxation of the rules of the WTO and the conditions of the EU would greater impact of long-term development.
It is not clear that extend access to markets and increase the aid form the use more productive capital political valuable in the north.
Development is not concentrate on trade and aid, but to improve the environment policy in poor countries.
And who is now is dependent??
If the great economist Argentine Raul prebisch lived currently, certainly would be if the world is the reverse.
The theory of the "dependency ', which had a great influence, argued that if poor countries were too for the export of primary products never alcanzarían depth the industrial needed to sustain rapid growth.
It empantanarían instead, in a cycle of decrecientes prices of raw materials at global level and participation falling income.
The response of policy favourite of prebisch, protectionism, proved disastrous for the many Latin American countries and African it did case.
But the fact is that for many years, prebisch seemed predicted aptly trends long-term price of primary products.
The ruthless progress in agriculture and the extraction of resources pushed down the prices of raw materials, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s.
With few exceptions, countries that are concentrated in the export of these products were desempeños very poor, while many Asian countries with few resources are adelantaron.
However, today, as the Asian giants, India and China, join the global economy, oil prices, the gold, the wheat and almost all the other materials are increasing in explosive.
Although there will always be cycles -- for example, oil prices will probably fall before again to start elevarse -- the trend of long-term of many primary products will be clearly upward for some time.
What many negotiators commercial and other person responsible for the design of policies seem to have not yet recognised, although prebisch would have noticed immediately, that these dramatic events have major implications for the global balance of power.
Indeed, perhaps any other aspect of the economic globalization will raise major challenges are world leaders in the coming decades.
There are questions.
Are you prepared to rich countries today in an era of codependencia in that they both need raw materials as the developing countries need imports industrial and technology?
Are you prepared to the inevitable flow of power and influence to producers of raw materials as they do much richer?
How will face the two superpowers world, China and the United States, to the fact that there are regions exporting of primary products important in Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia, which are full of nation States badly trained?
Some prophets autoconsagrados describe the problem as one of finite natural resources in the world is falling raw materials without criticism at an alarming rate.
Today, many support the theory of the "peak hubbert 'on the oil production, which claims that we have reached the limits of production capacity, the wells are secando and everything will worsen from now on.
However, as the prominent historian oil, give yergin, the prophets of the unfortunately have already declared at least four times that the world is falling without oil.
Increasingly, the threat of evaporó due to radical improvements in technology.
At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil dragar mulas implied.
Now it is no surprise to drill to 3,000 feet under the marine Fund.
There have been improvements similar in all sectors of the mining of metals and agriculture.
No, the world is not about to stay without raw materials.
What happens, however, is that the integration of 2.5 billion people (nothing more China and India) to the global economy change is taking place in the demand that the safety exercise much more upward pressure on the prices of raw materials for any technological advance can compensate.
So, at least for the next 50 to 75 years, perhaps until human begin mining operations on Mars at some point the centuries to come, prices of many natural resources are elevarán.
Does desestabilizará world politics by the rebalancing of the global economic power that desprenda it?
The first world war, of course, broke out in part by the concern that the German other colonial powers had a very high proportion of the world supplies of oil and raw materials.
Similarly, in the second world war Japan feared for the stability of its abasto abroad oil and other natural resources.
How will arise similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources - and even where the shortage of water is a probema) and West?
Fortunately this does not seem likely at the moment, especially given the sober and pragmatic approach to the Chinese leaders with regard to their problems of resources.
The Chinese are looking to regions such as Africa the hope find stable trading partners.
Do not share the political proselytising by the Americans, who not only want to trade exporters of raw materials but also turn them.
On the other hand, are also American leaders to speak to us is self-sufficient in its abasto energy.
But that is in essence a joke: complacent in themselves, perhaps, but self-sufficient, never.
It is understandable that much of the Arab world considered the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the real strategy of the United States to ensure a stable supply of energy.
If they are right, we can only hope that United States have a plan B.
Meanwhile, the prices of raw materials and continue amounting currently the biggest exporters of oil are responsible for the huge trade deficit of the United States.
Perhaps the strategy of us today is to try to both countries deberle exporters of raw materials that they have to rely on us to be happy.
That is something that would never prebisch anticipated.
The option of hard-line Iran
It is likely that the choice of hardliners as mayor of Tehran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next President of Iran deteriorating relations with the West and the international isolation of the country.
However, in domestic terms, it is likely that the regime is better than with Islamic him if there had been a result more moderate.
It is clear that Ahmadinejad has a basis of real support.
But that has been presented as a populist, who has spoken to help the poor, has condemned the functioning of the government and which has acted as the opposition candidate is almost irrelevant: was elected regime and end aid received official even against other candidates of hardliners.
The regime played their letters a brilliant.
Turned Hashemi Rafsanjani, slightly more pragmatic and which was not agree with certain current policies, the figure of "system 'and to their own man in rebel.
Thus, the government used feelings against the system to reinvigorate their command.
The fact that the last President Khatami, Muhammad, supported the reformist movement - although a timid and ultimately failed nothing - simply highlights the absolute so that rulers voltearon the political situation.
Ahmadinejad is a representative of younger activists of the revolution against the Shah of a quarter of a century ago.
Was directly involved in the capture of the American hostage in Iran, although to what extent is something debatible.
The most worrying of all is that it is close to the two main groups representing more extremist elements of Iran: the body of the Islamic revolutionary guard and basij organisation.
The first is an army parallel for regime; the second is an organization which intimida opponents and those seeking a more open society.
However, the concerns of leadership even more radical has taken the lead in Iran is mitigan by two factors.
First, it is likely that Ahmadinejad focus on internal affairs, to try - it is not clear to what degree of success - improving the living standards of the Iranians poorer.
Second, the same group that had the control since the revolution continue ocupándose ideological and foreign policy.
The President has less powers of what seems, in particular eclipsed by the supreme guide, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
Nevertheless, the election of Ahmadinejad abundantly clear that Iran raises the challenge to Western policy and the stability of the Middle East.
First, it sends a � by the most extremist elements of Iran and of the country - customers terrorist Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Palestine and several groups peque � you operating against Iraq, Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries - have the green light to launch attacks.
It is likely that pose that Iran will do anything.
Towards outside Iran has often been relatively cautious but to covert level has been the most important sponsor of terrorism worldwide.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acted on their own to order and coordinate specific operations now feel that they have more freedom to do so.
Furthermore, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
The majority of politicians Iranians -- at least those that government allowed to operate openly - support the programme, but it inclinan by a more discreet and cautious approach.
Rafsanjani, for example, preferred to build better economic relations with the West progress on the nuclear front.
If it is President Ahmadinejad of Iran is more likely to use nuclear weapons in aventurada.
That does not mean that the detonaría but rather that the usaría purposes of blackmail, taking diplomatic threats to level of crisis.
Since the Iraqi leaders proclaim daily its desire to wipe Israel off the map and combating the EU (Ahmadinejad pisoteó a photo of the American flag when he was to vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.
Finally, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will show more determined to subvert the stability of Iraq and its victory encourage extremist and radical Iranian officials who are in this country.
Iran is already sending many players to Iraq and supporting customers who want to turn it into a clone.
The Iraqis, including the Shia Muslims -- practice the same version of Islam that the Iranians - generally reject this interference.
It is likely that a position more militant of Iran increase the frictions with Iraq and generate more violence anti-American in this place.
In short, the election result of Iran is dangerous, although what so destabilising it will depend on the actions of Ahmadinejad and the degree of power that Khamenei given.
Furthermore, to deal with Iran so openly extremist - even for radical patterns hard-line regime - will be a challenge not only for us but also for Europe.
� try European countries pretend that the rhetoric militant and provocations of Ahmadinejad not matter and that it can find a diplomatic solution to Iran's nuclear ambitions?
With Rafsanjani would have been easy to maintain a real agreement or a farce of cooperation.
But with Ahmadinejad will need a high level of appeasement that even for the less diplomatic process can continue.
Some Iranian reformists and exiles is pleased with the election of Ahmadinejad, because claim his administration will no longer see the real face of the regime and Western borrará hopes to reach agreement.
However, can also represent the success of the regime in co-opt the dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.
Whatever the outcome, the West to the triumph of Ahmadinejad means that everything to do with Iran will be claentar further.
To take the poor to the rich
President Bush is determined to ruin the budget for us for the coming years.
When Bush took office, it was possible to foresee a future budget surpluses virtually uninterrupted.
Today, through a combination of tax cuts Republicans, driven by a slowdown in the economy, the stock market bubble desinfle and a massive increase in defence expenditure, the horizon tax is dominated by enormous deficits.
Come worse, as the Bush administration and the Congress dominated by Republicans are preparing a deepening of tax chaos.
The damage that will probably to weaken us instability and will add to the global economy.
Traditionally, the Republican Party American preferred balanced budgets.
This changed with the Reagan Administration favored conservative Republicans, when the tax cuts, even at the expense of the emergence of large budget deficits.
The President Reagan told us that the people could enjoy tax cuts, and the continuation of an increase in military spending programmes of their favorite all at the same time.
It is not surprising that the result was a series of vast budget deficits which took years repair.
Both President George Bush and Bill Clinton father had to raise taxes to fix the chaos of the Reagan era.
These tax hikes probably contributed to the defeat of President Bush to Father hands of Bill Clinton in 1992.
And yet, bravely Clinton decided to complete the process of restoring the balance fiscal, partly to protect the financing of the long-term programme of retirement of social security.
When Clinton left the office in the year 2000 budget, the situation was the best in decades.
Then came the President George Bush Jr. again to play the role it played Reagan: large tax cuts, and a great increase in military spending a continuation or even spread of popular programmes of expenditure.
The result was predictable
In January 2001, is that the budgetary proyectó cumulative result for the years 2002 to 2011 would surplus $5.6 trillion dollars.
In 2002, these surplus proyectados desvanecido had.
In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, could be hope that the Bush Administration and the Congress dominated by Republicans were cautious when it comes to proposing new tax cuts.
But no, its greater priority is to force new tax cuts that mainly benefit the rich.
At the same time, the administration is proposing large increases in the military spending.
The presidential election of November 2004 on the horizon, we can be sure that there will be no significant cuts in the programmes of not military expenditure.
It is that it seems that budget deficits mass came to stay.
If the internal expenditure is constantly simply as a fraction of national income, the result accumulated budget for the next ten years will be a deficit combined $1.5 trillion.
But can this figure to be optimistic because it probably not properly includes the costs of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax cuts, or the risks of greatest interest rates in the coming years.
Why are the Republicans worry so little this chaos?
Some Republicans care more to the rebajen taxes for the rich that almost anything else.
Others believe that deficits force to make significant cuts in expenditure on internal government, thus reducing the size of the state, which is its desire more dear.
The problem with this last point of view is that the majority of those who pay taxes love internal support programmes and not very easily implementation of significant cuts in expenditure.
More worrying is a question why the Americans vote for such policies, when they should know that only acarrearán problems.
A response is that many voters do not see the imminent budgetary problems.
A better answer is that the majority of Americans not actually voted for these policies.
Participation in the elections of 2002 was only 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or 20% of eligible voters.
Of course, the prospects are not be so black.
It can prevent the war in Iraq.
The tax cuts proposals can be reject or leave.
But I predict large budget deficits in the years ahead and a growing sense of unrest within and outside us about their macroeconomic situation.
Investors can decide to finance the budget of us and current account deficits in terms of favourable.
The dollar is weakening and can be the concerns about inflation.
All this can make those policies designed to have confidence in us less and less flexible in their responses to economic shocks.
It is likely that the poor, inside and outside us, suffer the worst part, when President Bush and the American Congress told the people and to the world that, due to the large budget deficits, there is no money to confront the problems of poverty, health and education.
Unless the Americans ordinary awareness about tax take these risks, the rich will stay with another gift of billions of dollars, whereas the country and the world suffer the consequences of the sad for many years to come.
Lessons of the tax imprudence us
George W. Bush has contributed most to the ruin of economic policy for us that any other President of history, even the American overcoming mentor, Ronald Reagan.
In just three years in power, has destroyed a fragile political consensus whose construction was necessary for a decade, and that could take another decade rebuild.
In so doing, Bush has put at risk the social stability and the economic strength of long term the United States.
Since budgetary challenges of long-term US manejando that is a bad way are not exclusive, errors tax of us provide important lessons for other countries.
The main problem with fiscal policy is that politicians can be popular temporarily to reduce taxes and increase public spending, causing a huge public debt and leaving its payment for the future.
This trick can last few years, but more sooner than later défitits the budget and the growing public debt force to painful steps backwards in this policy.
However, a political cynical can re-election and perhaps already be withdrawn when exploits the crisis.
One could imagine that, after hundreds of similar episodes of fiscal irresponsibility throughout the world in the past decades, the voters would allergic to tricks like these.
Bush, however, is doing again, buying popularity to spread massive reductions in taxation, while simultaneously military spending increases even raises the expenditure on education and health.
The result is a budget deficit equivalent to more than 5% of GDP.
What is worse is that the prospects of long-term budget of United States were already problematic before Bush began their irresponsible policies.
The population is ageing of us, so that there will be a radical increase in costs of public health and pension systems.
A careful calculation shows that it is likely that revenue under future policies favoured by Bush are insufficient in dozens of trillion dollars to finance the costs of state pensions, health care and other expenditure tax desired by the public.
At some point in the future we will thus increase radically tax collection, drastically reduce public spending, or both, to correct the actions of Bush.
Why, then, public supports these policies?
Because understands or little concerned about these consequences of long-term, even if finally end up damaging the majority of Americans.
The assumptions, taxpayers richest are happy because received the main part of the tax cuts.
Incredibly, 5% of the richest Americans taxpayers received almost half of the tax cuts, and clearly these rich taxpayers expect the other 95% (the middle class and poor) bear most of the cuts in expenditure and increases in taxes that apply in the future.
Meanwhile, Bush has convinced many voters the poor and middle class, must also be happy to say that it will have to pay their small tax cuts with much greater cuts in the future government services, if policies of his administration persist in the long term.
If the Americans had memory policy, understand that were already in this' mountain 'Russian tax once in the past 20 years.
Ronald Reagan also came to power promising large tax cuts and important increases in military spending.
The result was a huge budget deficit in the 1980s.
The tax cuts made enormously popular Reagan and what helped to win the re-election in 1984.
Necessary was more than a decade (starting with the second period of Reagan, and following the periods of Father George Bush and Bill Clinton) to return to a budget surplus.
Of course, this meant approve new tax increases, it cost the re-election to George Bush father and led to the political environment polarised 90.
It is almost certain that history will be repeated.
Some ideologues of the right of the Bush administration believe that fiscal deficits current finally force to drastically reduce social spending government.
Expect dismantle programmes as Social Security, Medicare.
But the American public strongly supports these social programmes.
So the right-wing strategy to reduce taxes first to force to make cuts in social programmes after will not work, and sooner or later it will be necessary to raise taxes.
Others in the Bush Administration argue that the tax cuts are important to us out of the recession.
This argument is wrong
The US economy could have been recovered without tax reductions, and perhaps a more solid.
In any case, it is a great mistake the tax base policies of long term in the trade cycle of short term.
There are two lessons vital for other countries.
The first is that the increasing budget deficits of us sooner or later international limited power of the United States.
The Americans supported the war in Iraq because not only had to pay for it with an increase in taxes.
When they are put to choose between disyuntiva of adventures abroad and increased taxes, is much less likely to support costly military operations abroad.
In fact, is deeply divided us when the public should be made to face tax chaos Bush.
The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking into account the increase in tax costs of an aging population.
The conditions of long-term budgetary rarely are unambiguous for taxpayers or Parliament.
It should to demand that governments present budgetary assessments of long-term annual budget, together with its proposals to reduce the tendency to political manipulation of short term in the budget.
Us can serve as early warning for other countries.
The White House should give the other the same warning that the magicians are to viewers: "not try this in their houses.
The policy on stock market
Many analysts economic and financial complain that the governments of the emerging countries too often manipulated its stock markets and that these are more political economic.
Of course the tacit it appears that, on the contrary, any pristine economic force of nature runs the stock markets in the advanced countries, and which therefore predict performance is as predict the growth of trees.
This description of stock markets from emerging countries is not wrong but only partial, because it also applies to the markets in advanced countries.
Indeed, the best analysts know that predict the performance of the stock market means of any country largely predict how the government wants to prosper investors in the political environment of time.
We see the stock market to the United States, the largest in the world by far.
The general perception is that the government is in peace to companies and the dividends of which are investing in the stock market forces fundamental reflect a capitalist economy robust.
This is one of the reasons why the US are a magnet for investors around the world.
But the dividends that do so attractive to stock markets us reflect a delicate balance political.
In particular, the tax rates that affect actions have varied in time as change political pressures.
For example, during the second world war, the political support to the large fortunes and government fell considerably increased tax on the profits of capital, the dividends and the high income in general.
When the second world war was a solid recovery of the Great Depression of the thirty Roosevelt, the President and Congress agregaron a tax to the excessive profits to ensure that the shareholders are not beneficiaran too.
In contrast, in 1980, when there was no war but the stock market andaba slack, American voters elected to Ronald Reagan, a man to be considered to be too many right-wing President.
The asked - got cuts to tax on the profits of capital, the dividends and membership.
The political interference in the stock market is not limited to tax on the profits of capital, and the dividends of accession.
Taxes on ownership, consumption, imports and sales - whom the corporations pay directly or indirectly can have an effect on the extended corporate profits, and therefore on the stock market.
It is no accident that in all places where flourish the stock markets, governments have care that taxes are not destroyed the corporate net profits.
Indeed, the policy on stock markets does not ends with taxes.
On the contrary, almost any activity government has an impact on the corporate profits and, in turn, on the stock market.
After the stock market crash of 1929, the US government suspended activities competition, to allow companies obtuvieran a power that monopólico elevara value.
This policy delayed the recovery of the massive unemployment, but even that was able to monitor the political forces prepared for the support the securities market.
Similarly, one of the most important things that was President Reagan was destroy much power of them was to trade unions, Americans whom compete for his portion of corporate profits.
The defeat of Reagan infligió to strike of air traffic in 1981 was a parteaguas to the trade union movement - to the US stock market, which began its dramatic upward trend in 1982.
The US government has shown particularly aggressive in supporting the securities market from the climax of the bubble of stock prices in 2000, especially cutting interest rates repeatedly.
Of course, this policy is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not to support the stock market.
But the percibiera that one of the key factors that pesaban on the economy was the price down of actions is an eloquent shows the importance of the US stock market.
Indeed, the response of the authorities are not limited to stimuli monetary.
National accounts of accession and product us show that the rate of effective taxation on corporate profits (the percentage of the profits that indeed paid government road taxes) came to a ceiling of 33.7% in the first quarter of 2000 - and boom in the stock market and the economy in general and fell to 20.2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market was under.
Much of this decline reflects the explicit support of that tax measures approved the Congress and the perception between corporations that in the current economic and political environment can be more aggressive in tax evasion.
Moreover, after the collapse of the stock market, the maximum tax on the dividends of actions are reduced 35% to 15%, which gave an advantage to investors substantial long-term and reinforced the effect composed of the net reinvest dividends.
Again, this tax cut is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, which, of course, can be said of almost any measure aimed at supporting the stock market.
But what determines that credible justification is the balance of political forces.
It could be said that, over the past 200 years, the same variables, including hostility to taxes and a weak trade union movement have operated in the EU - and that therefore it is expected to continue operating in future, producing higher dividends in the stock market and huge flows of attracting foreign investment.
Those who think that investments in the stock market us maintain strong growth trend of for decades may well be right.
But we must know what is pronosticando.
Essentially, not only are being predictions on economics, but also on policies - perhaps on cultural values which give way to the strategies and performance.
Global housing
Houses are investments more local, rooted in a particular place as a tree, and thus growing or marchitándose in response to economic conditions.
Everyone passes as a blitzkrieg on our television screens, but the market of our houses, formed almost in full by local fans, still planted there, in our own backyard.
Soon, however, all this could change.
Here is a month, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), in collaboration with my company, MacroMarkets, and also with fiserv and Standard & Poor 's, launched in future contracts and options on real estate prices in ten cities in the United States.
Contracts will recall the price indices property of the S & P / Shiller case, which is generated from academic work that my colleague Karl case and I began almost twenty years ago.
For many years, we have been campaigning for the future on housing, but, so far, no stock wanted to use this type of rates to create a market for the future.
The markets of the future on the prices of housing allow them to investors around the world invest indirectly in the United States, buying property interests in them through these markets.
An investor in Paris, Tokyo or Rio de Janeiro can invest in homes occupied by their owners in New York and Los Angeles, Las Vegas.
A fundamental principle of financial theory - diversification "or" sharing risk "- suggests that the interest in the new contracts will be high.
Individuals and businesses in New York, for example, are sobreexpuestos their local property risks, so that should reduce this risk on future selling price of housing in New York.
The people in Tokyo assume part of this risk buying future on the prices of housing in New York if the price is appropriate.
The New Yorkers continue living in their own homes, but now have distributed the risk of investment worldwide.
Has not been sought a genuine market in future on housing unifamiliares since 1991, when the stock exchange and future options in London (which today is part of euronext.liffe) failed in its attempt to launch such a market in Britain.
This attempt to never generated much volume transactions.
The stock exchange organized a party and not wine anyone.
Markets British investment in margins (spread on betting), and some markets retailers online, never represented much either.
This will be different time??
Without doubt, to launch a new market is always a proposal uncertain: people want to go to celebrations will only if many people; if not, nobody wants to go.
In the same way, the markets without many investors, cannot be sufficient execute operations as to generate the necessary restitution to attract.
As usually happens with the great celebrations, may be a mystery how arrancan substantial new markets, but we know that, from time to time, happens.
Initial indicators suggest a growing interest in operations in future on the prices of housing, especially because the fact that both speaks of the 'bubble' property highlights the importance of diversify the risk.
After the announcement of the CME, one of its competitors, the Chicago board options exchange, said that has planned to create a future contracts and options in the main American regions which will be based on real estate prices means published by the National Association of real estate agents.
However, beyond the strong public interest in investing in housing and in resguardarse the risks that this entails, another critical issue must be resolved to the markets of the future success: must prove prices and investors must understand what these mean prices.
I believe that there are very good possibilities that many of these markets of future soon pronostiquen substantial price falls in some American cities in the next year.
Will it operators call "backwardation" (market invested): the future price on the market today is lower than the current price of housing.
Perhaps this phenomenon will not produce the first day on which the future marketed on housing, but there are good chance of this happening in a matter of months.
Perhaps need "backwardation" in some of these markets if it is going to fulfil its function.
It is known that there was a huge explosion property in many of these cities (and in other parts of the world) in recent years.
It is likely that international investors do not want to invest in these cities unless the expectations of a fall in prices based on the markets of the future, as you know the people of Tokyo from its own experience dire.
But if the phenomenon of 'backwardation' is strong enough to investors who think the property market American way going to fall still able to expect a good return of the future on the prices of housing, because they are getting a lowest price on the market of the future.
However, it will take some adjustments to the New Yorkers who want to protect their own property sold contracts of future investments have a falling prices included.
Will get used to the idea that the market now expects the fall and which can only protect by this margin of possible future low price which exceed this expectation.
To tell the truth, this sort of adjustments in our way of thinking perhaps when there is really see market prices in future.
Until now, the future of course of real estate prices was simply a question of various opinions.
When the markets believe international consensus on the future price of housing in cities around the world, we will be better prepared to control the risks we face these cities and thus to stabilize their economies -- our own lives.
What is news move markets?
The stock markets in a large part of the world have been marked cumulative falls from approximately on 10 May in general, the low occurred in a period of two weeks until around the 23 May, but prices falling followed on average since then.
Does the problems in the stock markets in the world translated into problems for the world economy?
Look the greatest falls.
The rates of the main countries, the most important collapse was in India, where stock prices fell by 16,9% between 10 and 22 May.
The debacle in the other side of the globe was almost so important and the peaks and simas occurred a day or two after the of India: in Argentina, share prices fell by 16,1%; in Brazil, the 14,7%, and in Mexico, the 13,8%.
Large European markets also suffered losses.
In Sweden, share prices fell by 15.2% between 9 and on 22 May, approximately the same period, prices fell by 9.7% in Germany, the 9.4% in France and Britain and the 9.3% in Italy.
Similarly, in Asia, share prices fell 11.5% in Korea, the 9.3% in Hong Kong and the 8% in Japan, approximately the same period.
Many analysts try to link these facts with what happened in the United States.
But there stock prices fell just 5.2% between the 9 and on 24 May.
Nor China seems to fall behind the global, because the prices of actions there actually increased during this period.
The explanation of current economists revolves around the monetary policy.
Immediately after the great fear of deflation of 2003, the central banks around the world fell their interest rates which unleashed an outbreak speculative both on the stock market and in the real estate.
But now, according to this view, the increase in rates of interest are beginning to feel, presages future drops in asset prices.
This argument, in fact, has a quota of important truth.
The US Federal Reserve effectively increased rates on 10 May and its President, Ben Bernanke, then perhaps had indicated that other hikes of rates in future.
On 17 May were made disappointing data on inflation in the United States, which suggests that there is a file future monetary adjustment.
The economists like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is happening.
But, in doing so, usually exaggerate the role of the central banks.
In fact, the increase in the rate in the United States was only one in a series of hikes of rates -- the sixteenth succession.
Any other important central bank rates rose after that empezaran falls on the stock markets between May and June, when the 7-8 several did (the European Central bank, India, South Africa, South Korea, Thailand and Turkey.
Another factor is the price of oil, which rose by 24% between 22 March and on 2 May, marcando records all the time.
Undoubtedly, this was an important fact that possibly affected the stock markets throughout the world.
Increases in the price of oil has been responsible for practically all the economic downturns since the second world war.
Even so, increases in the price of oil do not correspond with the period in the middle of May in which rates of stock markets more fell abysmally.
That increases in the price of oil falls caused the in the stock markets presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.
But the stock markets are not very logical and could have delayed a response to the oil price shocks.
As with any other price in financial markets, a suba called attention.
When oil prices suben quickly, the people looking news linked to oil prices and talk more on oil prices, thus creating greater sensitivity to these news.
The crisis in the Middle East is linked to oil prices and dominated news in May.
Increases in oil prices amplificaron possibly in the minds of investors signals doom and the strong language employees by various political figures.
On 8 May, in response to statements hostile the Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, vice, the Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, said that 'the President of Iran to Iran should remember that it can also be wiped off the map ".
Similarly, almost at the beginning of the collapse of the securities markets may, Ahmadinejad visited Indonesia, the most populous country in the world with a Muslim majority and on 13 May newspapers published that students of two of the most prestigious universities of the country had ovacionado foot.
This history could have been interpreted as proof that the bravuconería of Ahmadinejad on the nuclear issue it was politically redituando, which feeds the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East could result in oil prices even higher.
These news may seem much far removed from the market values that monetary policy.
But the public how react against them, together with the recent increases in the price of oil, it can respond largely by the change in the psychology of market.
Attitudes towards the risk change all the time and episodes as Ahmedinejad's statements and Peres can precipitate such changes.
In this way, while these things happen ways are difficult to quantify, perhaps it should analysts equal attention to the words of Ahmadinejad to that of Bernanke when trying to understand the direction to take stock markets in the world.
The economists perhaps not like concentrate on public opinion and how interacts with changes in price, the news of the world and the dynamic speculative.
After all, it means that the facts are less predictable economic (and economists, less omniscientes) than them like to think.
But this approach makes sense in the intuition concerned.
What happens, really, the mind of investors?
Ahmadinejad is a figure; carismática Bernanke, not.
Ahmadinejad is embarking on an adventure; not Bernanke
And, perhaps most importantly, Ahmadinejad is a destabilizing influence; Bernanke, not.
In reality, whatever their fundamental cause, in the middle of May falls in share prices across the world indicate a market psychology of unstable.
It is hard to believe that were related solely with opinions on a possible monetary policy and not the most important issues and deeper, energy policy and the tension which underpin the performance of the global economy.
Why do pay more for fairness?
Marks & Spencer, a chain of supermarkets and clothes shops with 400 throughout Britain, recently announced that it is becoming full branch of coffee and tea, with a total of 38 lines to Fairtrade, a symbol of marketing which represents a 'ethical' production.
The chain already sells only tea and coffee Fairtrade in its 200 canteens revive coffee.
It is also fostering the purchase of straitjackets and other products manufactured with cotton Fairtrade.
The announcement was during 'Fairtrade fortnight', a promotion of two weeks of products which included Fairtrade giras where farmers in developing countries contaban them to British of how Fairtrade attending their communities.
The movement towards a more consumption ethical made significant progress in the United States, as consumers are inclinan, increasingly, organic food produced locally and eggs from hens that are not locked in cages.
In Britain, a survey found that half of the people that they showed the symbol Fairtrade it recognized and understood that relates to products which represent better conditions for farmers in the third world.
There is no comparable research in the United States, but from related data, and discussions with my own infiere pupils, that the figure would be much lower.
Traders seeking a certification Fairtrade must pay a price for producers to cover the costs of a sustainable production and offers a salary which allows them to live.
For example, the minimum price for coffee is of 1.26 by $450 grams, no matter how can have fallen the market price.
If the price of market go up above this figure, increase the price of Fairtrade so that continue costing more five cents per 450 grams.
The small farmers, for its part, they are required to organize cooperatives or other groups to allow democratic participation.
Plantations and factories can use the label Fairtrade if they pay their employees decent salaries, if comply with the rules on health and safety and the environment if we allow them to organize unions or other forms of associations of workers, if provide decent housing to workers who do not live in its own House and if not use of child labour or forced labour.
Not all are agree Fairtrade.
Lindsey brink, director of the centre for studies of trade policies of promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign coffee Fairtrade 'is a blind alley good ".
With some justification, claims that the real cause of the collapse in coffee prices was not the acaparamiento of multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Brazil and Vietnam, combined with new techniques which make possible cultivate coffee with less manpower and therefore with lower costs.
According to the opinion of Lindsey, if we want to help the coffee growers, we should encourage them to abandon the coffee producing crops and more profitable -- here, rightly points out, the subsidies and trade barriers by rich countries as obstacles to be dismantled or pass to products of greater value, as special cafes, have higher prices.
The curious thing about the argument Lindsey, however, is that it could be said that the campaign of coffee Fairtrade is doing what he rightly recommends - encourages the coffee growers to produce a special coffee with a higher value.
Economists to market not objetan that corporations apelen blatantly esnobismo to to promote their products.
If people want to pay for 48 $450 grams of coffee blue mountain of Jamaica because that is what economists James Bond, prefers not objetan that is distorting the market.
Why, then, be critical when consumers choose pay for 12 $450 grams of coffee, we know, was grown without toxic chemicals, under trees that promote the survival of the birds, farmers can afford to feed and educate their children?
Economists could answer that, if one wants to help people feed and educate their children, can pay 10 dollars for 450 grams of coffee than Fairtrade but which have the same taste and give the 2 dollars that saves a entity of charities to give food and education boys poor.
It is a strategy, but Fairtrade has its advantages.
Farmers know that must offer a product like that to consumers, both for his taste, by the way in which it cultivates.
If their product sold well, can be proud of having produced something which the people seeking throughout the world.
From the perspective of growers, receiving a subsidy is preferable to sell a product Fairtrade which receive a donation of charity which receive anyway, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
Pay more for a label Fairtrade is not more "anti market 'to pay more for a label and Gucci reflects better ethical priorities.
It is not Fairtrade government subsidy.
Its success depends on the market demand, not political lobby.
Fortunately, in Europe, this demand for market is growing rapidly.
It is hoped that soon reach similar levels in all the developed world, where people can choose what are its discretionary expenditure.
Marranos calves, and American democracy
In the midst of all the headlines that spoke of democrats had obtained the control of the US Congress, an important step election result almost unnoticed.
Although stressed the defects of the American political system, I returned faith in the ordinary compassion for the Americans.
In Arizona, citizens can put a bill to direct popular vote together if a sufficient number of signatures.
This year, one of the issues that were the boleta was a law to ban that atara confinara or a marrana preñada or to beef criada for meat, so it prevented the animal given back echarse freely, completely and extend their limbs.
Those who know little about the modern industrial farming can ask why need this legislation.
Under rearing methods that universal were 50 years ago and which still common in some countries, currently all animals have room for given back and estirar their limbs.
However, today, around 90% of the marranas of farming - mothers of pigs are bred and kill to obtain meat, bacon ham — and spend most of their lives locked in cages that measured by approximately 60 cms. 2.2 meters.
They cannot be back, with their legs echarse widespread completely or giving more or a step backwards.
They are tied to other marranas maintains with strings small that prevent them given back.
The calves are contains similarly throughout their lives in cowsheds that do not allow them to be back, or echarse estirar their limbs.
These methods are essentially work - save resources to facilitate the handling of animals and to enable farms have thousands or tens of thousands of animals hire a small number of less skilled workers.
That also prevent animals wasted energy moviéndose and struggling.
Several years ago, following protests by organisations of animal protection, the European Union's task to Scientific Veterinary Committee a report on these methods.
The Committee established that animals suffer not to be possible to move freely and not have absolutely nothing to do throughout the day.
Of course, common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
Following the report, the EU set dates after which would be banned confinar well to these animals.
In the case of calves, the date of 1 January 2007, because almost has come.
The individual stalls for marranas, are already illegal in the United Kingdom and Sweden, they will be banned throughout the EU from 2013.
Also are gradually adopting measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, which is generally apretujadas in the wire cages without room for extending their wings.
In the United States is not expected any national measure of this type.
My friends European before, when I asked why the United States are so behind with regard to Europe on animal welfare, I had no response.
If I presionaban, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans are less concerned for animals that Europeans.
Then, in 2002 defenders of animal welfare included in the electoral boletas Florida a proposal to ban the stalls for marranas.
To the surprise of many, received the approval of 55% of the voters.
Last month in Arizona, despite an opposition well financed agro-industrial sector, the ban on small cages for marranas calves and was also approved a support 62%.
Neither Florida or Arizona States are particularly progressive - both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
That is why the results firmly indicate that if all the Americans are given the opportunity to vote on the Auriol marranas preñadas and calves in places such small, the majority would vote against.
It seems that the Americans animal welfare matters to them as Europeans.
So, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States on animal welfare, we must look at political systems.
In Europe, the concerns of the voters on animal welfare have influence members of national parliaments and Members of the European Parliament, which has resulted in national legislation and guidelines of the EU to respond to these concerns.
In contrast, in the United States concerns do not have a similar effect on observable members of Congress.
There is no federal legislation on animal welfare of farm -- very few State laws.
That, I believe, is because the sector agro-industrial gives tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of Congress seeking reelegirse.
The movement for animal welfare, despite the broad popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of lobbying and donations to political campaigns.
The American policy more money into account the opinion of the voters.
The party discipline is weak and representatives must themselves together most of the funds they need for re-election, and this happens every two years in the case of members of the House of Representatives.
In Europe, where the party discipline is rigid and parties, not the candidates are those who finance campaigns, money plays a minor role.
In the United States, a nation that prides itself on its democratic traditions, not only lose out the marranas and calves.
What is new in the new Afghan army?
The murder of tidal Minister for aircraft of Afghanistan (perhaps incited by members of the temporary administration itself of Afghanistan) shows that Afghan society remains deeply fisurada.
The first Afghan army reforms will only these divisions broader.
The Minister for Defence of the administration of temporary Hamid Karzai in Kabul already appointed to the highest official of this new army.
Minister, the General Mohammed Fahim, is the Panjshir tayik district in the north of the country that three months ago took the command of the forces of the Northern Alliance that captured Kabul after the American bombers aclararon them the way.
As a whole, their appointments pose a challenge to direct objective that has he Karzai to reunite the country.
Afghanistan is a nation multiethnic, being the Pashtun the largest group, two-fifths of the total.
The Hazars and the tayik constitute each around one fifth of the population.
The official treintaiocho high to the rank of general by Fahim treintaisiete tayik are, and the other Uzbek.
If any of the fifteen to seventeen million of the country is Pashtun reclutado as soldier will under a structure of command formed almost in full by tayiks.
The language of the Pashtun, however, is so different from tayik as the English and Spanish million of the Pashtun in age serve the militia know only a breath of tayik, at best.
The profile of the new geographical military leadership is so angosto as its ethnic constitution.
The official treintaicinco treintaiocho of more senior come from a small area of the North of Kabul, the province constituída parwan (in which localiza airport Bagram) and the Panjshir Valley, which for a long time was the strong square the Northern Alliance.
Because otherwise, the leaders of the potential of twenty-seven 29 provinces of Afghanistan were excluded the new military elite of the country.
Perhaps a group with a basis for so little variety could not give the impression that members make up a clique hermética if representaran crusade to a large section of the twelve or more political parties of the country.
But that is not the case.
Eighteen of treintaiocho top commanders from a party, and the Islamic faction jamiat Islami, led by the long and Mullah Burhanuddin Rabbani exprofesor of theology.
This was the party that ruled Kabul in the middle of the 1990s, originando the bloodshed and the chaos that made that most of the Afghan give welcome the Taliban.
Almost igualando the amount of members of the military jamiat hierarchy, are the Communists.
The dieciseis treintaiocho have been long aligned with this party whose stratagems of the end of the 1970s led to the Soviet invasion of 1979 89, which cost the two and a half million Afghan lives.
Today, most of the Afghans to see Communists with the same sympathy or the Poles, the Czechs reserved for national of Hitler.
True, the people in Afghanistan, as everywhere, joined the Communist Party for various reasons and ningua way were all supporters of ideologies strict.
But in the case of the general of general Fahim six were professional employees of the Communist Party and continued working to him after the invasion of the Red Army.
The six, as well as other three Communists that served as official Afghan army, actively worked together over the decade of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
Imagine how the French have reacted if a quarter of the official body of existing in France in the postwar had taken the side of the Wehrmacht occupied when their country.
In Afghanistan the news travel quickly mouth in mouth.
(between nationalists Afghans who are almost all Afghan) soon will find the political background to the members of the circle of general internal Fahim, if that is not already know.
Even this sobrecogeedora evidence of unipartidismo predisposition and in the training of high command the new army could be neutralizada if the general brindaran professionalism and commitment to the values of a real national patriotic armed force through its work.
Unfortunately, only ten of the military treintaiocho promoted by Fahim have fungido as official military professionals.
A eleventh served as pilot.
In contrast, the total 24 (the background of the remaining four are unknown) from civil society, with whatever professions, or of the offices of the Communist party or in one of the cases, to make career as Mullah.
What does mean all these statistics in terms of everyday reality?
Mean that when the commanders of the international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as the military and diplomats, know the Americans asistende Minister of Defence of Afghanistan will be on Abdul Rashid Dostum, a remarkably corrupt and brutal military commander and Communist which remains in contact with old friends red army still in service in Moscow.
It means that the head of the armed forces Afghan, as well as the head of operations and the chief of military intelligence, are also Communists, men whose loyalty is uncertain and who mistrustful of most of the Afghans.
Is this a team that would have the possibility to unify Afghanistan fragmented by war?
Will inspire the presence in Kabul of such dudable crew, confidence in the three quarters of the population of Afghanistan have been excluded from high command army?
Or is this list, rather, harvest for a rapprochement with the kind of governance "everything to the winner 'which is designed (at some future point) to trigger national another bloody setback in the hands of those whose legitimate interests have been cynically atropellados?
The Americans, Europeans and people of the United Nations responsible for the definition of policies should ponder these questions before consent afford a ruthless to take charge of unpopular and a small minority.
A recognition to irrational
My applause for the new economy: the Nobel Daniel Kahneman, the University of Princeton and Vernon Smith, the University of George Virginia mason.
Like many other Nobel galardones, these are not just a recognition of the work done by señero Kahneman and Smith, but also to schools of thought which helped to lead.
That is, Kahneman sicólogo, has shown how people behave systematically rational ways of less than orthodox economists believe.
His research shows that not just the people sometimes act differently to predict what economic theories standard, but that they do in a regular and systematic, and in ways which can understand and interpret through hypothesis alternatives to compete with the used by orthodox economists.
For all market participants (and, indeed, for the observers ordinary) that does not seem to be a great novelty.
Agents of Wall Street that were the sale actions they knew that they would not assert anything explotaron the irrationality that Kahneman and Smith have.
Much of the fever that led to the bubble economy was based on the exploitation of the sicología investors.
In fact, this is not a novelty irrationality nor the profession of economists.
Long John Maynard Keynes described the securities market as something based not on rational develar people fighting for fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest in which adivina who wins the verdict of the judges.
The Nobel prize for this year is a recognition of the criticism simplistic to a market economy, as did the award last year (of which was one of the three winners).
The winners last year were emphasis that the different market participants have different imperfect) (and information, and that these asymmetries of information have a profound impact on how the economy.
In particular, the rewarded last year that the markets involved were not efficient in general and that the government should play an important role.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets are efficiency as if by an invisible hand manejara) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
Nor is this novelty for those working day to day on the market (and make their fortunes salvando and exploiting the asymmetries of information.
For more than twenty years economists have been fascinados by the so-called 'models of rational expectations', which were that all participants have the same (if not perfect) information and acting in perfectly rational, markets are fully efficient, and that unemployment never (except when there is caused by the greed of the trade unions or for minimum wages of governments), and in which there is never a rationing of credit.
These models that have prevailed, especially in the American universities, despite the evidence to the contrary, it is a testimony to the triumph of ideology on science.
Unfortunately, these programmes are university students who now designed policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that has been called fundamentalism in the market.
It is not me malentienda: models of rational expectations made an important contribution to the economy; the stringency that its supporters imposed by economic thinking helped to highlight the weaknesses of many underlying hypothesis.
The good science recognizes its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations often have not shown the modesty.
Vernon Smith is a leader in the development of the economy experimental, the idea that it is possible to prove several proposals economic environment in a laboratory.
One of the reasons that the economy is a difficult subject, and why there are so many discordancias between economists, is the fact that they cannot conduct controlled experiments.
Nature provides experiments natural, but almost all the circumstances so much change quickly so that it is often difficult desentrañar what caused what thing.
In principle, in a laboratory can be controlled experiments and therefore make inferencias more reliable.
To critics of the economy are concerned that the experimental subject are situations experimental ways of thinking caused outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not so clear and that the inferencias not so as defined in physical sciences.
However, the experiments provide economic prospects for a number of important issues, such as the best design of auctions.
More importantly, the irrationality of market participants, which was the focus of the work of Kahneman, has been repeatedly in contexts laboratory.
Among the most divertidos results that have arisen in the economy are experimental those related to the altruísmo and selfishness.
It seems that (at least situations experimental) the subject of the experiments are not as selfish as raised economists in its hypothesis, except in the case of a group: economists ourselves.
Does this is due to the economy as discipline attracts people who are more selfish by nature or to help the economy form to individuals, making selfish?
Almost with certainty the answer is a little both.
Probably, the future experimental research will help resolve the question on the relative importance of these two hypothesis.
The Nobel prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as are, not as they wish.
Only if we understand better the real human behaviour we expect Designing policies that make our economies work better too.
The bad faith of the energy policy of Bush
In one of the most surrealist sessions of the World Economic Forum in Davos of this year, the experts of the oil industry explained how the derretimiento layer of the polar ice cap -- is happening faster than anyone had anticipated represents not only a problem but also a chance: can now that facilitates access to vast quantities of oil.
Similarly, these experts to grant the fact that the United States has not signed the Convention sea, the international treaty which determines who has access to oil and other minerals maritime rights of overseas, presents a risk of international conflict.
But also point the hand advantageous: oil industry, in its relentless quest for more reserves, does not need to ask the Congress to be given the right to expoliar Alaska.
The President George W. Bush has a strange skill of not see the message more.
For years, has become increasingly clear that its energy policy is quite errada.
Following the dictates of the oil industry, even members of his own party they referred to a law which previous energy as a "not made any lobbista dissatisfied".
While praised the virtues of the free market, Bush has only just give enormous prebendas the energy industry, even in times that the country faces very high deficits.
There is a fault of the market with regard to energy, but government intervention should go in precisely the opposite direction proposes that the Bush administration.
The fact that the Americans do not pay the price of all pollution resulting from its derrochador use of energy - the massive amounts of greenhouse gases which cause the means that it is undervalued, which in turn argues excessive consumption.
The government must encourage conservation, and intervene in the system of prices - through taxes on energy - is an efficient way of doing so.
However, rather than encourage conservation, Bush has driven a policy of 'drenar to the United States first ", made us more dependent on external oil in future.
No matter which make increasing demand high oil prices, creating a rain of money for many of those involved in the Middle East which are not exactly friends of us.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have awakened finally to the reality of the growing dependence on us, with the large increase in oil prices, it will be difficult to note the consequences.
However, almost surely the hesitant steps of its administration empeorarán things in the immediate future.
Bush still refuses to do anything with regard to the conservation and supported with very little money its constant mantra that technology is what we have to save.
What, then, can we think of their recent declaration of a commitment to us is 75% less dependent on oil from the Middle East in 25 years?
For investors, the message is clear: not invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the source cheaper oil world.
However, without new investment for the development of reserves in the Middle East, growth debocado energy consumption in the United States, China and the rest of the world means that the pace of demand will the supply.
As if that were not enough, the threat of Bush on sanctions against Iran poses the risk that occur disruptions in the supply of one of the major producers in the world.
At the moment that world oil production is about to their full capacity and prices are already more than double the level of its before the Iraq war, the future leaves glimpse prices and greater profits for the oil industry, the only winner clear policy of Bush in the Middle East.
It is clear that should not be accused of Bush at least and, finally, have recognised that there is a problem.
But, as always, a more detailed look at what proposes suggests another trick of hands by its administration.
In addition to refuse to acknowledge the importance of global warming, encourage conservation or devote sufficient funds to research to make a real difference grandiloquent, the promise of Bush to achieve a reduction of dependence on oil from the Middle East means less than it seems.
Since only 20% of oil used in us from the Middle East, its goal could be achieved with a modest change of acquisition of this resource from other sources.
However, one might think that the Bush administration is surely aware that the oil is traded in a global market.
Even if America were 100% independent oil from the Middle East, a reduction in supply coming from the region would have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.
As is so often the case with the Bush administration, the explanation of the official policy is not very halagüeña.
Does Bush playing to the policy to azuzar feeling anti Arab and anti Iranian in us?
Or is it just another example of disorder and incompetence?
As we have seen over the past five years, the correct response probably contains more than something of bad faith and pure ineptitude.
Of the road map China
China is about to adopt its eleventh five-year plan, setting the stage for the continuation of probably the most remarkable transformation of economic history, while improving the situation of material almost a quarter of the world's population.
The world had never before seen so of sustained growth; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
The success of China has been extended its almost unique combination of vision and pragmatism.
While much of the developing world, following the guidelines of the Washington consensus, was aimed at a quijotesca crusade for increased GDP, once again, China has made it clear that increases seeking sustainable and more equitable in living standards real.
China is aware that has entered a phase of economic development which is enormous significando -- and unsustainable demands on the environment.
Unless there is a change of direction, the standards of living will being affected.
For this reason, the new plan of five years puts great emphasis on the environment.
Several of the most backward areas in China has been growing at a rate which would prodigious were it not for the fact that some parts of the country are growing even faster.
Although this has reduced poverty, inequality has increased, with increasing disparities between rural and urban areas and between coastal areas and the Interior.
The report by the World Bank development of this year explains why inequality - not only poverty - must be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China attacks against the problem.
For several years the government has spoken of a society more harmonious and describes the plan ambitious programmes to achieve this.
Furthermore, China acknowledges that what separates the least developed countries to the developed is not only a gap in income, but also a gap in knowledge.
So that is a bold plan designed not only to reduce, but also create a basis for innovation independent.
China's role in the world and in the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects.
Its future growth will be based more on internal demand that in exports, which will require an increase in consumption.
Indeed, China has a problem: a little common level of excessive savings.
The people saves partly because of the weakness of the programmes social security government; the strengthening of the social security and pensions) (public health simultaneously reduce social inequalities, increase the sense of well-being of the citizens and promote consumption today.
If they are successful and China has (so far) overcome even their own expectations, these adjustments can mean huge pressure on a global economic system that is already descompensado due to the enormous fiscal and trade imbalances of us.
If China saves less -- whether, as have announced their authorities, seeking to carry out a policy of investment more diversified of its reserves, who will finance the more than $2 billion a day from the US trade deficit?
This is a subject for another occasion, but can that day is not very far.
So with a clear vision of the future, on the challenge will implementarla.
China is a large country, and could not have achieved the success it has had a widespread decentralization.
But the descentralizaciones raise their own problems.
For example, of greenhouse gases are global problems.
While us says that cannot be allowed to do anything about it, the high authorities of China have acted in a more responsible.
In the month after the adoption of the plan, imposed new environmental taxes on cars, the petrol and forest products. China market-based mechanisms used to address their own and global environmental problems.
However, the pressure on the authorities of local governments to believe economic growth and jobs will be enormous.
Will very tempted to argue that if the US cannot produce a way to preserve the planet, how could they?
To translate its vision of actions, the Chinese Government need sound policies, such as environmental taxes just apply.
The move towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems which have affected repeatedly to developed countries: masquerade selfish interests that their arguments behind a veil of tenue ideology of market.
Some move for the economy of chorreo: no concern for the poor, because it all will eventually benefit growth.
And some will to policies on competition and the existence of sound legislation on the handling of corporations act: Let the law of the survival Darwinian.
Arguments will be focused on growth to oppose the existence of social and environmental policies sound: for example, they say that 'if suben taxes for petrol, this will mean the nascent automotriz suffocation of our industry.
These supposed policies for growth not only what created, but which can threaten the same vision of the future of China.
There is one way to avoid: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose the fallacies arising and give space for creative solutions to the many challenges facing that China today.
George W. Bush has demonstrated the dangers of an excessive secrecy and limit the decision-making to a narrow circle of adherents.
The majority of the people outside China not appreciated to what degree, in contrast, its leaders have been involved in lengthy deliberations and broad consultations (even with foreign) in its efforts to solve the enormous problems that face.
The economies of market not to regulate themselves.
We cannot simply leave on automatic pilot, especially if one wants to ensure that all enjoy the benefits.
However, it is not easy to manage a market economy.
As a malabarista, must be constantly respond to balance economic changes.
The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that answer.
The world observes with amazement and hope as the lives of 1.3 billion people continue transformándose.
The lessons of Tocqueville Democracy
It seems appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, which the world is debating the nature of democracy to the birth of two hundred years Alexis de Tocqueville.
Tocqueville is rightly famous nostalgia for rejecting the reactionary and consider the triumph of democracy as our destiny, while warned of the dangers that entails democracy for freedom.
We must continue share their concerns??
Tocqueville concebía to democracy not only as a political regime but, above all, as a regime that intellectual gives way to the customs of society in general, and thereby gave a psychological and sociological dimension.
Tocqueville argued that democratic regimes determine our thoughts, wishes and passions.
As a man had renacentista and, in the 20th century, a homo sovieticus, 'democratic' man is a variety of the human being.
For Tocqueville, systemic effects of democracy could lead to the citizens are deprived of their reasoned thinking.
That could only aparentar juzgaban events and values alone; in fact, merely copiaban toscas opinions and simplified the masses.
Indeed, what Tocqueville called the domination of the 'social' power on the opinion is probably stronger democratic regimes in the point of view which predicted growth of demagoguery in modern times and the manipulation of the media.
Tocqueville believed that this trend had no limitations effective in the long term.
Neither democracies, nor small local societies, nor checks and balances government, or civil rights can prevent the decline of critical thinking that democracy seems trigger.
Schools have the power to be little more than enclaves in the middle of the strength of the corrosive social influences on the operation of the mind.
Similarly, while Tocqueville thought that seek to virtue, was in the old or have a religious belief occasionally could raise the soul, was also in conflict with the democratic ideal if prescribía officially in public life.
In this sense, the heirs of intellectual Tocqueville include the theoretical neomarxistas school of Frankfurt, as well as Hannah Arendt. They feared above all to the disintegration of the right in modern societies.
Indeed, the French philosopher Marcel Gauchet intituló a book recent against democracy itself.
The lifestyle democratic argue, as these writers, tends to destroy the original thinking and suppressing the 'high culture', which gives a result mediocrity makes people vulnerable to the enemies of democracy.
But, while the history is full of regimes for mass murderers alabados intimidadas and misled, the great risk to democratic countries is that their citizens fall into the apathy and in view of the short term for the sake of satisfaction immediately.
Last despite the rituals seeking commemorate this historic moments borra due to the addiction as new and recent.
Even the ruling class, supposedly well-educated is subject to this charm.
The essential problem of the democratic mind is its lack of historical awareness.
Does the defects of democracy, really mean, as Tocqueville argued that the pessimism resigned is the only realistic way but we unsustainable?
I I do not think.
There are ways of fighting against what might be called the 'democratic' growing stupidity of today.
The first is defence press for an education system which really form minds criticism, namely through raw neglected largely (currently) of literature, history and the philosophy.
If you want to be informed and citizenship criticism that democracy needs, our schools must always be the most recent pasajeras fashions and start to improve analytical capabilities of students.
The biggest impediment to this education are the means of mass communication, with its tendency to cultivate the superficiality and the fun.
Many people currently passes more time in their lives watching television that the salones class.
The passivity which encourage media is the opposite of the active participation of citizens need democratic.
But it is difficult to imagine that the means of mass communication (with the exception of newspapers quality) become, for its own willingness to instruments of education to strengthen capacities criticism of citizens.
This concern on the means of mass communication is not mere elitist contempt towards popular culture.
The issue is not only the popularity - after all Mozart was popular in their times and works teatrales Shakespeare atraían of both the poor and the rich but the mass rejection of culture to challenge and provoke.
The outcome of this failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
It has long been in a global boom culture of media that is unable to introduce the capacity for critical thinking or create high feelings.
It is a culture which, because of its neglect threat, because democratic freedom cannot create any sense of duty - society, to the history of the Community.
Is it too late to do something about a culture that apaga both the spirit?
Tocqueville despreciaba the elites of their time for complacency for the strength of mass uprooting of democracy.
Does it also serve the myopia of our leaders as agent of prophecy disturbing?
For Europe
Today, long Members who belong to the European Union seem doubt the future of the same in Ukraine, but to see with hope and admiration.
Unite the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, since Ukraine has found to be a nation is not an end but a beginning.
Indeed, European unity is indivisible: when a nation remains condemned to ostracism, none of them is free.
We Europeans are part of a network, indispensable close entrelazados in a single fabric that represents our destination.
Every aspect of our shared culture, if not the last century of shared suffering, confirms that US.
Everything that affect a European directly and indirectly affects us all.
Never again can afford live with close notion of two Europes, privileged and dispossessed, known and outsiders.
Anyone living within the European continent can (or indeed) must be considered alien to the Union.
It depend on the great European Pax and prosperity of pan-European today.
Of course, some people murmura that Ukraine is not Europe.
To come to Kiev and talk to the people, both young and more, with the factory workers, farmers' wives, lawyers, doctors and teachers have remained ordinary, enduring weeks the cold and snow last winter to defend their freedoms.
You are not united by a link with those who remained the hand of General de Gaulle in French resistance?
You are not those who died in fighting for the Spanish Republic in 30 years, with those who liberated Budapest in 1956 and with those who were finally to fascism in Spain and Portugal in the 1970s?
You are not encouraged by the same spirit that forces gave the Solidarity movement in Poland and the peaceful mass that protagonizaron the Velvet Revolution in Prague in 1989?
This is the true European spirit, and no doubt can derrumbarlo.
To those who say that Ukraine is too delayed as for EU membership, I say also, to come to my country and to see mothers who are the night in their workplaces enseñando their children to use their computers.
To come to see the lessons of languages in every town and city where young people are preparing for Europe, learning French, German and English.
Those who doubt the European vocation of Ukraine must understand that Europe is not an issue of machinery and superautopistas inextinguible; it is the desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
I believe that our future is as promising as brilliant is the past in Europe, and that our destiny is not to be a forgotten country a border region in problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
The self-determination no longer mean isolation, since to achieve national independence nowadays means only return to world stage with a new status.
The new nations can create with their old occupying the same sort of fruitful relationship that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
This is the kind of relationship that my government seeks secure with Russia, and that is the way we can extend the area of peace in Europe.
Of course, it is premature to else which indicate the great interest to see the prospect of membership of the EU.
We know that our part in this great building will not be built overnight.
We know that the great works of European unification does not lie in documents or statements, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and ensure the security of all Europeans.
Building a dignified Ukraine of membership of the EU will not be easy, cheap and quickly.
However, as the Union itself, it is a company that achieved.
We know that the challenge is large, but the prize is worth the effort, and Europe must know that this is our goal.
The task of renew Ukraine is a creative battle to end a century of nightmare that fascism and communism, ideologies nacidas in the heart of Europe, fought for total power.
Just a few months ago in cities across Ukraine, our children and their parents faced by armed troops, threatening dogs, or even to death.
Only a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze,, to try to inform the public about corruption of the old regime, and was tortured decapitado and his henchmen.
However, our Orange Revolution's last winter demonstrated that the people of Ukraine prevailed.
So, despite the doubts and difficulties of today, remain an unshakeable faith in Europe.
I rehúso unease as to accept the final answer to the ambiguities and horrors of the history of Ukraine.
I rehúso to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically United the opaque midnight the heritage of communism is never really see the dawn of peace and of European unity.
When EU citizens sopesen the place of Ukraine in Europe, must do to further and closer to what is at first sight.
Must see beyond the devastated moorland left that communism, beyond poverty and beyond the social divisions through which our former rulers, today left aside, tried to prolong their misrule.
Instead, it should look around in the face of our president, Viktor Yushchenko, the poison deformado during the election campaign of last year and remember the words of the great French André Malraux, for whom 'faces the most beautiful are those who have been injured.
The civil war Muslims
What is now the division between Sunnis and Shia in the Middle East that the deeper antagonism between Israel and the Arab?
One might think that, given the response of some Arab governments to Hezbollah's decision to attacking Israel.
Even at that time bombs on Israeli caían Beirut and stone, Saudi Arabia, and perhaps the most conservative Muslim Arab country of all, openly condemned actions of Hezbollah, which is an organization shií, instigate the conflict with Israel.
Never before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict a state that is seen as leader of the peoples Muslim Arabs had backed Israel so openly.
Moreover, the breakdown of Saudi Arabia with Hezbollah is not isolated.
Egypt and Jordan have also condemned categorically to Hezbollah and its leader, Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, for its lack of responsibility.
What is behind this surprising attitude?
What we are witnessing a fundamental change in relations between the Arab and Islamic nationalism sectarianism?
What is more concerned with Saudi Arabia and atemorizada Islam Shiite that committed Arab unity and the Palestinian cause?
Accusations of Arab against Hezbollah suggest that the division between sectarian Muslims, already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, is deepening and making stronger in the Middle East.
The desire of President George W. Bush remecer immobile of the societies of the Arab world intended to raise the forces of modernization against the elements of traditional Arab and Islamic societies.
Instead, it seems to have unleashed most atavistic forces in the region.
To open this Pandora's box can be given to start a new and more bitter was the widespread violence which may only be called a 'civil war Muslim ".
The division between Sunnis and Shia has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical isolation and ethnic the Shiite Iran not Arab domain, together with the Arab Sunnis and Shia minorities, largely kept this rivalry in background.
These tensions retrocedieron further with the tide Islamist created by the Iranian revolution, since it after the identity sectarian Arab lost even more weight as a surgía identification "Islamic" widespread.
That changed when al-Qaeda terrorist Sunni, a force which relies heavily on the ideology of the Wahabis Saudis and its people, launched its attacks on the United States in September 2001.
Now had a arm Sunni specifically of militant Islam.
When America was beginning to its war against the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and Sunnis Sunni of Iraq, this new current Sunni radical be strengthened even more.
Sunni Arabs in the region, with its new bríos, perceive that Israel and the West are only one of the threats, while the other is the so-called "increasing Shiite", the arc of land which extends from Lebanon to Iran, via Syria and Iraq, the Shia supposedly inhabited by heretical.
The rulers of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the sacred places more of the Muslim faith in Mecca and Medina, so time are more inclined to feel this threat.
In the eyes of the Shia, the Sunni areas not only dominate rich in oil of Iran, Iraq and the region east of Saudi Arabia, but which - through the actions of Hezbollah are trying to usurp the role of 'protectors' central the dream of all Arabs, the Palestinian cause.
The UK Arabia has become against Hezbollah due to the fact that the Saudi royal family derives its legitimacy from a strict form of Islam doubt Sunni and Shiite the loyalty of its population.
Ironically, America, the traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, who has made possible the strengthening of the Shia, the overthrow of Saddam Hussein and lead to parties Shia power in Iraq.
The Bush administration seems acknowledge what has, as the arc Shiite grows in the Arab world, this Muslim us seeks to strengthen the protection of Arc Sunni (Egypt, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia) in the West of the region.
Israel, otrora the implacable enemy of Arab cause, now seems to have been integrated to this defensive structure.
However, a defensive position with such is designed to be unstable, due to feelings panárabes.
Today, the citizens ordinary Saudis still events in Gaza and southern Lebanon through to Al Jazeera and other networks of satellite TV.
They see that blood derrama Arab (not Shiite Hezbollah), and that only responds to attacks.
In their eyes, Hezbollah has become a model of heroic resistance.
This is doing that state Arabia into the schism among Sunnis and Shia.
After official UK accusations against Hezbollah, the state Arabia called their official Wahabis clerics to issuing fatwas to condemn hazbolah as an organisation of heretics and cismáticos Shia.
This kind of condemnations cannot do more than exacerbate divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.
As to deepen these antagonisms, you will believe Sunni regimes need their own Hezbollah in its corner of the world?
If you come to this conclusion, do not have to look far militia, since these have already been trained... by Al-Qaeda.
Georgia in the mind of Europe
The time in which Europe could rely on us to make war, peace and create democracy in their own backyard ended.
As demonstrated recently by the Russian gas crisis, with the enlargement of the EU the backyard now includes not only to Ukraine, but also to Georgia.
In fact, like Ukraine, Georgia facing a test of its democracy that Europe cannot afford to ignore.
Georgia was the first country to initiate a post Soviet "revolution of colors' and to demonstrate, with dignity and maturity, the option of its people by democracy and European values.
Flags of the European Union that since then have ondeado in all public buildings in Georgia are a sign of this accession and natural as old as the history of a country for which the ancient Greeks was an integral part of the world known.
Prometheus, medea the Amazon, and in the neighbouring Armenia, Noah's ark... the Europe of our myths starts here.
With its history, its culture and traditions (including its critical, independent and even rebel within the former Soviet Union), Georgia would seem a candidate for a successful ideal democratization.
So it is much more worrying is that zozobrando.
Everything seemed to have begun sufficiently well.
There was no opposition to political reforms, of privatizations, anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders not manchados with arrangements with the former regime and the implementation of a foreign policy for Europe.
However, since then has a mentality reaparecido totalitarian leaders in which, on the pretext of represent the will of the majority, are increasingly apropian of power.
As the hydra of the ancient Greeks, the political elite of Georgia seems not end never to die and revival.
The same people and methods of government tried to defeat the "Rose Revolution" November 2003 have reaparecido at the centre of power, using its networks of relations, that extend beyond the limits of the country, as well as their tremendous wealth and its well afinadas skills of manipulation and intrigue policy.
All this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which is not merely the ballot to vote, but the separation of powers.
The government is inmiscuye in the affairs of Parliament, which in turn is to control the details of the executive... which in my case included the appointment of the ambassadors and their routines daily!
Finally, what is more serious, the judiciary is not independent, which undermines the rule of law and prevents private investments that both are needed.
Democracy of Georgia exists in his head, but not yet in its body: citizens still menosprecian policy as a dirty business abandonándola, who should have been retired long ago.
However, the hope of democracy remains strongly rooted in the people, civic organisations and the media.
Now is the time for Europe to ensure that this hope is not extinga.
The United States has already done everything that has been able to support political stability in Georgia, since independence.
There is no doubt that stability is not always amounted to democracy for the government of Eduard Shevardnadze, the former Foreign Minister of the former Soviet Union which was taken power during the Rose Revolution.
However, the Americans invested generously to support the survival of ideas and democratic leaders.
Although the Foundation backed by financista George Soros not fabricó the Rose Revolution, claim the Russian nationalist, certainly, nutrió estimuló and supported the preconditions of democracy.
However, to help consolidate its democracy, Georgia now needs a support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to offer.
Models of balance of powers, functioning of the judiciary and local democracy should be inspire in European forms, closer to the reality that Georgian models of Anglo-Saxon American type.
If Europe does not assume this challenge, fundamental traicionaría its duties in a small place (, Mediterranean, flexible, with old historical traditions) where democracy has a much greater chance of success that in Ukraine, which is still a huge and where dominated Soviet mindset, not to mention the Central Asia.
In fact, do not support the nascent democracy of Georgia probably delay the democratic progress in Ukraine, Belarus and even the same Russia.
Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
While Russia has never given up their dreams and instruments of imperial domination, was resignando the inevitability of democracy, at least in their margins.
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to sudden eruption of famosamente irrational "derzhava" Russian: an aggressive ethos that says glorifies the state and its strength through the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis Russian.
It is equally certain that any sign of regression of democracy in Georgia and other states Soviet post will give impetus to the Russian neoimperiales ambitions.
Responsibility is for Europe to convince Russia that there is no hope of a return to the past.
Europe must assume this role not only to ensure the independence of its future energy supply, but also to show that European values of freedom, democracy and justice between peoples have a real force.
To achieve this, it must be equipped with the necessary instruments: great half-open Foundation to promote Europe and to support political reforms, to form a university for the future of the executive nacientes democracies, a police force and a set of judges and magistrates to give life to the models we want to emulate.
Above all, Europe needs conviction.
If the Europe of today cannot be convincing that has a vital interest in the future of their neighbours, who tomorrow you will believe in Europe?
