 The House is divided Europe  
 A common feature of the extreme right of Europe is its racism and its use of the issue of immigration as a political force.  
 The lay North of Italy, the Vlaams Blok of Holland, the supporters of the national front of Mr Le Pen in France, are examples of parties and movements are trained to the common theme of the aversion to the immigrants and the promotion of policies simplistic to monitor them.  
 Although the individuals as Haidar and and Jean Marie Le Pen come too soon) and (never go, the issue of the race will not go away from the present European policy on any closer.  
 The population of more and more older at home and the borders more open than ever, involving a fragmentation is in the European countries.  
 The main parties of the centre left and centre right have faced up to that prospectus to bury our head in the land, have false hopes that the problem will disappear.  
 It will not, as clearly shows the history of the United States (the USA).  
 The race relations in the USA have been at the centre of the political debate for decades, and still are, to the extent that the cracks relations are as important as the income, if not more, as a factor of the preferences and attitudes policies.  
 The first step is to confront the policy is to understand the origin and the consequences of racial animosity, even if it means develar unpleasant truths.  
 That is precisely what a great number of research in the economy, sociology, psychological and political science has done to the USA.  
 This research shows that the people of different race rely much less in each other; the targets are less willing to support the expenditure on welfare because it considers that it favours the minorities; the more fragmented racialmente have governments less efficient, corruption and sponsor, crime and less productive public goods by every dollar of taxation.  
 That does not mean that the answer is to eliminate the heterogeneity and to create uniform racialmente communities, but we need to recognise the reality of such issues to begin to build sound public policies for the race relations.  
 Clearly, the Americans are not agree about how to do it.  
 Some favouring affirmative action programmes which give preference to the minorities for the allocation of jobs, the admission of the College and the granting of public contracts.  
 These policies are considered a form of offer repair by past injustices, and more importantly than that, to create the model (role models) and avoid the residual discrimination and maybe unintentionally.  
 Others are opposed to the affirmative action and to argue that a policy of blind to the races, along with the policies of the free market and the values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep to the black families.  
 It is crucial for any policy, as it is one of the biggest causes of poverty in the USA is the propagation of homes of single parents (making single mothers) in the Community box.  
 Irrespective of which is the right response, the point is that determine what to do about the races is a dominant theme in the American policy.  
 Clearly, the minorities have made progress on the path towards a greater integration and economic success.  
 In the fifties, black people could not sit in the lead of buses, today, two of the most important of the us foreign policy are black.  
 Without doubt, American politicians right to continue using the "Charter is" as a tool to tactics.  
 Let us consider the case of Patrick,, the exasistente of and announced that became independent presidential candidate in the last elections.  
 He was recently published a book, entitled "the acceptance of the death of the West: how are dying of immigrant and imperil our country and civilization" (the death of the West: how the populations moribundas and the invasion of the immigrants are put at risk in our country and civilisation).  
 But by every book as that there are others, which represent a serious analysis of the issues of relations in the USA.  
 The analysis of policies and the debates about the race relations are very backward in Europe.  
 In the face of these matters form slightly open, in terms of quotas of immigration and border restrictions, not in terms of the social problems and the opportunities created by a Europe which is increasingly mixed racialmente.  
 Clearly, it is necessary to have a clear policy of immigration in order to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.  
 But that cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico is not the end of the us policy towards the problems in domestic!  
 Europe is rich and becomes older with haste; the Europeans, agricultural in generous programmes of welfare, are no longer prepared to accept "dirty jobs in, Let us say, the Commission or the Russian fur industry.  
 It will be inevitable that have an increase in immigration.  
 The Europeans, however, are ready to criticise us for any failing in its policy for minorities and for any manifestation of racism across the Atlantic.  
 When you read the European press one often sees a complex of superiority towards the USA in regard to the difficulty in: they, the Americans have problems with racism; we are immune, except for the desbocados and neonacistas and people of style.  
 What has happened in the last few weeks, from Paris to Amsterdam, shows that the problem is in Europe is far more profound and, as in the USA, originates in the sad truth that the relations of races are inherently difficult and the confidence and the joint not transitting well through the lines of relations.  
 If the main parties in Europe will not invest more seriously in the understanding of the racial tensions in Europe and put to the 'race' as one of its priorities, the individuals like Mr Le Pen will no doubt will try to fill the gap with its message of hatred.  
 Against the French exceptions  
 The attention of Europe today is focused, with reason, on enlargement and on the Constitution that the Members of the EU being redesigned.  
 But the result of several galas clashes with the European Commission will be less important to determine the fate of the new and enlarged Europe.  
 France has chosen to ignore, unilaterally, the Pact for stability and growth, make a deficit spend enough above the ceiling of 3% of GDP.  
 The French were likes to proclaim the rigour of his rational thinking, but in respect of budget deficits compromise its place in obfuscation.  
 France was among the main criticism of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish government reduced its presupuestal surpluses, which at the time was the 4% of GDP, in just a 0.5%.  
 Other countries have violated the stability Pact, but France is the first that makes it with an open attitude of challenge presumptuous.  
 None of this should sorpender to anyone.  
 France is to apply the rules of the EU its habit innate to consider their own culture and outstanding.  
 For example, France consistent provision prohibit the reforms to the common agricultural policy of the EU.  
 As we know, even children, the CAP is a beautiful and quite unwarranted gift to the European farmers wealthy (paricularmente the French) at the expense of the beleaguered farmers in developing countries and of consumers in the EU.  
 France is also trying to return to the old policies of rescue, with taxpayers' money, to private companies profitable not to the point of collapse.  
 The Commissioner for policies of competence of the EU, Mario Monti, may not lose this battle: it needs the support of those who believe in the markets and in equal treatment for all.  
 Here, the case is simple.  
 The French government intends to rescue Alstom, a company which developed a series of products of high technology, including with the train fast French, but that recently shaken.  
 The French government supports that never retrocederá in its plan to rescue Alstom, a plan with all the reasons: tasks: to maintain employment, to protect the investment, etc.  
 Moreover, as it is a question of high technology, the French government is invoking the pretext of research and development, claiming that are good for growth.  
 Rescue Alstom via the renationalisation of the company is obviously too.  
 The company is made up of various parties, some profitable, some in business: what is it obvious.  
 The components lucrative, as with, will find buyers with ease; the plants not productive would have to close.  
 The money of the French taxpayer would be better employed in profits for the temporary workers posted in subsidies to maintain living a plant is not profitable.  
 It is important that the European Commission does not allow that France will apply special rules on competition policy, as it seems to be doing with their deficits presupuestales.  
 The Commission must prevent that take care to private companies in France, as it does with subsidies of this kind in any other Member State of the EU.  
 The Commission has already had some successes in this area, which highlights the have forced the German government to cancel the guarantees of government for the public banks.  
 Question in particular, and France in general, must not be the exception and have to stick to the same employers.  
 If the Commission acts, the EU still seem more the stock of diversiones of the civil servants of the French.  
 France has always taken a leading role in the foreign policy of the EU, and the Minister of foreign Affairs, Dominique de Villepin, increasingly seems more and acting more as the Minister of foreign Affairs of Europe.  
 At the same time, France breaches essential rules of the common economic policy and public aid to private companies.  
 We will lose the European Commission what remains of credibility for ending still a small child Parisian?  
 A defeat in the Alstom case would have serious consequences in Europe (and not only with regard to competition policy).  
 The war for oil  
 For decades, through administrations Democrats and republicanas, the United States has sought a series of clear objectives of energy policy: to maintain world prices of oil as stable as possible; to reduce the internal consumption of mineral oils way less painful; to reduce the dependence on imports, provided that it is possible; and to diversify the sources of the oil imported.  
 Despite appearances, none of those objectives has changed under the Bush administration.  
 Many observers believe it has established a new because the invasion of Iraq is apparently going against those objectives.  
 A significant increase in the production of Iraqi oil is likely to increase the dependence of the EU towards the oil, in relation to other sources of energy, since that world prices of oil perhaps would like response to the increase in the proposal.  
 This, in turn, would mean an increase in dependence of the EU towards the oil imported, particularly in the Middle East.  
 However, the irony is that the EU were a greater control over the Iraqi oil sector under the 'oil for food' programme of the UN, in force before the war (in that organisation, not Saddam Hussein, determined the level of sales of Iraqi oil abroad, that we will have under a democratic Iraq in the future.  
 If the Bush administration had been seeking sources of oil stable, secure diversified and cheaper, as could be raised to the embargo against Iraq and Iran, Libya, Sudan, to allow the oil fluyera.  
 But the interests of the United States in the Iraqi oil was not driven by the economy or the energy policy.  
 The Bush administration has recognised that, Firstly, the Iraqi oil is a geopolitical recourse critical.  
 Who controls the Iraqi oil will take control of Iraq.  
 The power of the lies in its control over the second largest reserves of oil in the world.  
 I had understood perfectly well what the oil meant for their power.  
 In the face of the possibility of the invasion and the defeat, emotional threatened with setting the oil deposits of the country.  
 A large part of the destruction and the plundering of the oil installations that are given after reflects that everyone understands that controlling oil means controlling Iraq.  
 When I was in planning its invasion, ensure deposits tankers became a priority criticism.  
 The aim was not to increase the supply or reduce prices for the Americans, but to deprive of their power and, in the long term, to establish a new and sound Iraqi government.  
 The future of Iraq is directly dependent on the fate of the production of oil from the country.  
 However, the whims of the businesses tankers, above all in conditions so unstable, are not allowed to see clearly how could the Bush administration to achieve their goals in Iraq in the near future.  
 The logic is simple.  
 The EU must use the revenue tankers for depriving us of the taxpayers of the burden of funding the regime change in Iraq.  
 All the projects of reconstruction depend, in the long term, the ability to Iraq to export large quantities of oil.  
 If Iraq does not delivery of oil, the President Bush will not be able to fulfil its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and to the global Community.  
 Before the invasion, the production capacity of Iraqi oil reached the three million barrels per day.  
 Iraq will not be able to recover that level during the time that is needed to establish a new government.  
 Any increase in the production of requires the development of the oil fields, involving large investments, a government representative, and the legal and political stability.  
 Even the Bush administration, that those conditions are fulfilled soon.  
 In effect, the political stability is the precondition to increase the production capacity.  
 The historical evidence of Iran and Kuwait, Russia, and even the same Iraq, indicating that need around three years since the reinstatement of the stability policy for which the ability to increase significantly and keeping a high level.  
 Iraq needs to several years for the drafting of a new Constitution, to establish a legitimate and democratic government, to negotiate the distribution of incomes tankers between their regions, implementing laws of investment and to make the economy to be attractive for foreigners.  
 Also needs time to negotiate with the international oil companies and with its neighbouring countries, to carry out studies and of technical feasibility, and for reconstruction, rehabilitation and explored its oil reserves.  
 Thus, even a calendar of three years seems optimistic, since it assumes that, during that period, to end the occupation, the Iraqi people to establish their own democratic government and achieved the political stability.  
 We do not need to say that the situation can be developed in a different way.  
 The tensions could continue for years.  
 Moreover, no one should be surprised if the production of oil are arrested in full, including under a democratic government.  
 The history suggests that the strikes and other similar events which can interrupt the production of oil are a major threat in democratic countries that those which are not.  
 If Iraq does not can boost quickly its production capacity in the near future, that will be an obstacle to the foreign policy and energy of the EU.  
 How will the long-term reconstruction of Iraq?  
 Who will pay for maintaining a fragile democracy in Iraq?  
 How is the EU to support its occupation if we are not able to give attention to food, health and other basic services to the Iraqi people?  
 These are difficult questions, and essentially not able to answer so that a stable and democratic regime in Iraq can monitor and ensure a continuous flow of oil exports.  
 As the murderers abreast of human rights  
 If it were not so quite sad, would without doubt the joke of the Millennium: Libya that has been chosen for chairing the Commission of human rights of the United Nations.  
 As calígula appointed Senator their horse, at least not in the animal was a cattle.  
 Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the Presidency rotates every year from a region of the world to another.  
 This year it was the turn of Africa to nominar President, and became a to Libya.  
 Only the United States and Canada voted against.  
 For its eternal shame, the European countries abstaining.  
 This decision was given in a sensitive moment for the organisation is indicative of the bankruptcy of the UN.  
 President Bush has challenged the crisis to which shows its seriousness with regard to its own decisions on Iraq; another way could have the same end ignominious that the League of Nations, which resulted in the 1930s powerless when faced the aggressive policies of the Nazi Germany and the fascist Italy.  
 Choosing to Libya as chair of the UN Agency responsible for human rights which helps to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of the world body.  
 Let us remember: Libya is a totalitarian regime; its leader, moammar kadafi erratic behaviour, combining with political extremists, and supporting dictators in the world as a whole.  
 Heads of one of the most repressive regimes, where there is even simulations of elections and where dissent is crushed immediately.  
 Under its government, Libya has supported terrorist organisations in the world (since the eri even various Palestinian extremist groups).  
 Following under UN sanctions for its role in the derribamiento a flight of Scotland, in years, Scotland, ten years ago.  
 In the last decade, the position of the UN as a symbol of the ideal of a peaceful world has been eroded.  
 It was totally unable to stop the war in the Balkans, and in at least one case (a), a Dutch forces of peace of the UN stood as a mere observer of the worst massacre in Europe after 1945, when the Bosnian Serbs murdered at around 6,000 Muslim men defenceless.  
 A Dutch select admitted later that the Dutch battalion the UN had been, in fact, an accessory of that war crime.  
 The genocide in Rwanda, when it started, the official responsible for the UN peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the country of the forces of the organisation, with what we left the field open to massacre mass murderer of the bloodiest since the second world war.  
 The name of the official is Kofi Annan.  
 It is a record depressing and pathetic that the UN is trying in vain to redeem the) (likely to arise in the crisis in Iraq as the voice of reason and the international legitimacy.  
 But at a time when the UN inspections in Iraq seem as sending the salvation army to eliminate a band of gángsters, raise to Libya to the Presidency of the Commission of human rights could go down in history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose life started with many expectations.  
 The organisations sulen die, and certainly there is very raison d'etat in order to ensure that the UN continues to progress, although it is limping along.  
 But I will just a shadow of what should, and can, be.  
 Today, the hypocrisy is the hallmark of the UN.  
 The authoritarian to websites.  
 Last Thursday, the judges of the Court in Jakarta, Indonesia I, who was sentenced to one year's imprisonment.  
 As chief editor of according to the Court, I am guilty, according to the Court, of slandering a banking business called tomy by imply its possible participation in a fire in the textile market from South-East Asia in Jakarta and promote disturbances to spread untruths.  
 Could it be that my case, and other similar down, promise the end of another democratic experiment of short duration in Indonesia?  
 The troubles me allegedly fomenté occurred in March of last year, when almost 200 crooks, who said to be supporters of suspect, attacked the offices of the, threatening to burn the building, plagued the staff and were a White.  
 To try to resolve the situation in a peaceful manner, persuaded me to negotiate in the survival of police station in Djakarta, but I discovered, to my horror, who was in the hands of the leaders of peat.  
 I were beaten and kicked while the police closed eyes.  
 Fortunately, many journalists came to our rescue with the grabadoras and chambers lights.  
 Their emissions caused protests which obliged to our Parliament to organise a public hearing.  
 The Heads of the national police and Jakarta were summoned and, under an enormous pressure for, the leaders of peat were accused criminal penalties.  
 But for evadió research policiaca simply stating in public that its supporters had acted without that he knew and without their consent.  
 He then presented their own criminal charges, against Ahmad taufik, who wrote the Article, teuku iskandar Ali, whom it only, and my person.  
 The judicial procedure that lasted a year was full of a series of events suspects, all in favour of.  
 First, the case that arose of the police and the Attorney-General contained documents State that had been counterfeited so obviously the accused to two police officers.  
 But the Court rejected our request to delay the process so that you could clarify the legality of the case of the State.  
 The case against the officers involved seems not to be progress.  
 On the contrary, one of them was promoted to address the recently created (with funds from the EU) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.  
 The other was told that it was sent to the police Academy for staff to receive training forward.  
 Subsequently, during the six month of the process, the President of the panel composed of three judges was suddenly ascendida to head the Court of one city at a time of Jakarta.  
 One of my lawyers commented that in its 35 years of experience in courts had never seen to replace a judge President during a judgment in the process.  
 In fact, despite its promotion, the judge followed taking another case in the same place.  
 A judge who previously had ruled against the demand for measures in the area of its duties.  
 Finally, when, in his testimony, committed perjurio at deny that according to what had been met.  
 Recently occurred a recording of the telephone interview in the Court, the White which made the interview and two editors of the watching testimonies juries, given the official record of the telephone company was presented as evidence of the so-called and an expert concluded that the voice in the study was of tomy.  
 But the judges rejected the request of the arrest and prosecute, by perjurio and told us that to give notice to the police, something that we did.  
 Then the judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the Court to be resolved the case of perjurio against suspect.  
 Given the process so flawed, my condemnation and my decision is not surprising.  
 But I still have hope to win in the end, as the highest courts carry the appeal lodged by the.  
 The courts of Indonesia are cleaner as higher is its perspective, and the President of the Supreme Court is a staunch defender of democracy and freedom of the press. the case, could turn into a victory that will mark a milestone in our democracy, as it was the decision of the Supreme Court of the EU in the case of the United States in the Volkswagen works business.  
 The most difficult to make accusations of defamation, that decision guarantees that the American journalists can make that civil servants should be accountable.  
 No country knows better than to Indonesia that freedom of expression and a free press are indicators tested democratic development and try to journalists as criminals is a first symptom of authoritarianism.  
 Indonesia was a Liberal democracy in the 1950s, before the President helped, with the support of the military, began to suppress the press in 1956.  
 With the critical voices silenciadas, consolidate a power without limit was easier and, in July and declared the inception of the "guided democracy".  
 During the first years after the fall of the fall in 1996, restablecieron all the benefits of the genuine democracy, including the freedom of the press (except for the Communists).  
 But the regime of President Suharto initiated a new repression against the press at the beginning of the 1970s, and eventually banned various media and was imprisoned in many journalists.  
 With the press under control, other political rights were quickly restricted and democracy in Indonesia returned to fail.  
 Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third major democratic country in the world and in the most democratic Community Muslim history.  
 There have been two parliamentary elections and two presidential elections NGOs - including the final showdown presidencial-que have been opened, just and peaceful, which shows that Islam and democracy can coexist.  
 However, the enemies of democracy will never lie.  
 Radical Islamic groups have taken part in acts indiscriminately, whereas groupings with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the close the circle of President Megawati.  
 But Mrs Megawati just be defeated in its attempt to re-election.  
 Does the recently elected President will continue to be accusing journalists?  
 Perhaps my condemnation and the judgments and condemnations of other journalists, on the principle of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia that much work cost?  
 The answer is in the support that the activists in favour of democracy in the country they create both internally and at international level.  
 Losing Indonesia - a potential beacon of hope for all those fighting for democracy of the Muslim Community mundial-sería a defeat education.  
 The morality of the death penalty  
 It is often criticised the United States for refusing to abolish the death penalty.  
 Many currently asserting that the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition of a civilised criminal legal system.  
 The Nobel Prize Gary Becker is not agree.  
 The European governments are firmly opposed to the death penalty --la European Union the banned by completo-- and some Europeans consider that its use in the United States is cruel.  
 Indeed, many European intellectual argue that not only the death penalty but the punishment in general dissuades not criminals.  
 But as Europeans, with rates of criminality very under the Americans over the last half a century, could be given the luxury of being relatively "soft" with the majority of the crimes, have seen a rude increase their rates of criminality in the last twenty years.  
 Instead, the Americans have decreased, due in part to a greater use of punishments.  
 This includes the death penalty.  
 I support the implementation of some people condemned by murder because --y only porque-- believe that prevents other murders.  
 If I do not believe that I am opposed to the death penalty, because the revenge and other possible reasons should not be the basis of the public policies.  
 The serious empirical studies on the death penalty in the EU began with a pioneer of Isaac study published in 1975 on the American economic review.  
 Some further studies have found a deterrent effect much weaker, while others have established a much stronger.  
 However, the available data are quite limited, which must not be based exclusively on the evidence econométricas no conclusion.  
 Naturally the public policies in relation to any punishment cannot wait until the facts are perfect.  
 But, even with the obvious quantitative limited funds, there are grounds for believing that the death penalty a deterrent.  
 The majority of the people, and in particular the murderers, fear to death, above all when it comes with a considerable readiness and ability after a murder is committed.  
 As said by having to talk about the suicide, "no rejected his life as it has been worth the effort live it.  
 Such is our terror natural death... "in the same way, schopenhauer thought that" as the terrores of life are at the point at which are superior to the terrores of death, a man will put an end to his life.  
 But the terrores of death offers a considerable resistance... "  
 Those who are opposed to the death penalty frequently claim that the State does not have the moral right of dropping the life to anyone, including the worst of the murderers.  
 But that is a completely wrong for anyone who believes that the death penalty a deterrent.  
 To see why, Let us assume that for every cut-throat implemented (instead of sentenced to prison, for example) the number of murders were reduced by three, which is a figure very inferior to those of the and other calculations of the deterrent effect.  
 This means that for every cut-throat not implemented, would die three innocent victims.  
 Indeed, the government would be contributing indirectly to "remove" many lives if not usara the death penalty.  
 Save three innocent lives by each person carried out seems to be a good compensation, and even two lives saved by implementing a convincing rate seems to be of benefit to the death penalty.  
 However, it is true that the arguments in favour of the death penalty is less clear when the number of lives saved by implementing diminishing.  
 But, even if only salvara a life for implementation, the option could continue to be desirable if the life of which was saved is much better than the life quitada generally, that would be the case.  
 Many people are opposed to compare the quality of life which was saved and the life quitada.  
 However, I do not see how to avoid such a comparison.  
 Let us consider for a criminal race which robs and kills a victim that it took a decent life and that leaves several children and a wife.  
 Let us suppose that it was possible to save the life of an innocent victim in implementing that criminal.  
 To me it is obvious that to save the life of the victim must assert more to the life of the criminal.  
 Obviously, not all the cases are so clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must form part of any reasonable social policy.  
 It helps to explain why the death penalty should be used only in cases of murder and not of minor offences.  
 When it comes to opt for removing lives and, say, to reduce the thieves, the arguments in favour of less severe punishments are much more solid.  
 Although the most, including some of these violations, can approach the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support their use in those cases.  
 A powerful argument in favour of earmarking the death penalty for the murderers is the "deterrent marginal".  
 If the attacks are castigaran with the implementation, the criminals would have an incentive to kill their victims in order to prevent the descubrieran (what constitutes an important reason why the severity of the punishment must be proportional in general to the severity of the crimes).  
 A complication is that the death penalty can make the murderer fight with greater force to avoid their catch, which could lead to more deaths.  
 But, if the deterrent rather marginally is important, I believe that the resistance of the murderers to be caught, possibly at the expense of their own lives, is a real proof that the criminals are afraid to the death penalty.  
 Of course, I am concerned about the risk of implementing a innocent.  
 My support for the death penalty would be undermined considerably if the rate of executions of innocent people were as high as many claim.  
 However, I believe that the process of appeal in the EU offers an enormous protection, not so much against the condemnations wrong but against the illegal executions, so that there are very few cases documented, if any, of innocent people have been executed.  
 And this process has been strengthened, with the development of the identification based on the DNA.  
 Once again, the debate on the death penalty is essentially a debate about the deterrent (which may reduce with appeals lengthy).  
 I understand that some people are sceptical with regard to the evidence, although I believe that is wrong about that as much about the element of common sense of the issue.  
 It is distressing dropping the life to anyone, including a murderer, but sometimes very unpleasant acts are required in order to avoid even worse behaviour which claim the lives of innocent victims.  
 The town of Putin  
 I helped to select Vladimir Putin to happen to Boris Yeltsin, the first Russian President elected democratically.  
 Since the structures of the structures and the KGB now govern Russia and its legal system, which is supposed to Yeltsin wanted to define who would be his successor to avoid legal prosecution in the future.  
 But those selecting to Putin had the task of finding a person who was the reforms of Yeltsin, anyone who only hide behind him and his family.  
 In fact, Yeltsin had no fear and not sought their survival staff, but the idea of the democratic introduced in Russia.  
 However, now that idea is threatened due to the successor that chose.  
 I do not deny my responsibility for having supported to Putin.  
 We were not close friends, but we are working together in critical situations, and always thought his sincerity.  
 Putin acts guided by their convictions.  
 The problem is that these, including its belief that Russia can only flourish if it is governed by a power resulted in a single source, are wrong.  
 This great mistake is taking to Russia in the wreck of the policy.  
 Of course, one that will deal a high duties fails to make mistakes, including some fundamental, and this is particularly true in stormy periods.  
 Mr Yeltsin was not an exception, but he recognised.  
 For example, when it was on the eve of new year 1999 requested apologise for having initiated the war in Chechnya.  
 In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognise and accept their mistakes, and to demonstrate in the implementation of a policy of long after its failure is evident to all over the world.  
 One of the mistakes of Yeltsin was not set the priorities, the head of its programme of reforms.  
 Russia should have been sorry Stalinism and the system gulag of fields of forced labour.  
 The entire nation, without exceptions, would have been sorry, the way as the Germans have done since 1945.  
 This omission is important, since that allowed the little happy beliefs of Putin in a Central authority to conduct the recaptura State on the part of the security services.  
 In fact, a direct result of regret for the national was gulag should have been the prohibition of the Communist Party and the dismissive of those who have worked on the structures to exert political office.  
 Although these filters politicians are a complex issue in the post-Communist societies, where both the victimisation and cooperation are so common and the limits between them are so unclear, could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.  
 No do nothing left to the structures of Russian security, and with the ability to effect a return policy, which currently have failed.  
 The resurrection policy of the structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence the disagreement, once more have been converted to Russia in a country of dissidents.  
 It is impossible to silence the politicians and the independent media without strangle the sources of funding independent, and for that reason the influence of Putin has focused its attacks on the so called 'oligarchs ".  
 The arrest and judgment of Mikhail Khodorkovsky were staged precisely for this reason.  
 The to eliminate sources of funding independent, the security services that dominate the simply waiting to destroy the life of independent policy in Russia.  
 Without foundations of independent thought, guaranteeing a climate of fear.  
 But I fear not only downgrades: it creates the conditions for a bad governance.  
 Mr Yeltsin had understood that the fear of way intuitive and centralised decision-making and top-down were not ways to govern a modern country, and Consequently made in reforming the relations between the citizens and the State.  
 Putin still do not understand that a centralised political system is so unable to understand and correct mistakes now as it was in the Soviet era.  
 Putin, that is not a man well educated, is taking to Russia, with a deep and sincere belief, the same disintegration which struck with the collapse of the Soviet State.  
 The people are beginning to realise this.  
 The people see that the desire of Putin to create a modern State strong and effective can make reality, since a modern State is governed not from above, but by a citizenship informed that are forced to their governments to recognise and correct its mistakes.  
 Also Putin seems suspect the impotence of his regime.  
 This is one of the reasons for which Russia has become so hard with its neighbours, Ukraine and Georgia, and seems to maintain a military presence in places like the Transnistria, the separatist region of Moldova.  
 In launching its weight on its closest neighbours, seems to think that can persuade the Russians its omnipotence.  
 Given what castrado that is the debate in Russia, and the ability of the Kremlin to manipulate the elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who wish to preserve the idea of democracy in the country.  
 It makes no sense to hold any false.  
 Those who are opposed to Putin must decide what they want, and to State that, if the regime does not sticking to the Constitution, have the right to force them to do so, by any means that is necessary.  
 At present, the question of power in Russia can no longer be decided solely in the ballot box.  
 As in Ukraine, the Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, decided on the streets.  
 Taxation and expenditure in India  
 A tax level too high can reduce the incentive and hindering growth.  
 But too low a level can give the same result.  
 The governments with tax revenue insufficient cannot provide basic public services.  
 Worse still, the low income tax in the poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in the systems for collecting taxes (more than the lower tax rates) which will also promote the little productivity in the companies.  
 India illustrates the importance of a system of collection of taxes well designed.  
 In Bangalore, the high technology companies have built facilities of quality international with fields well maintained and communication networks of high speed.  
 However, out of these facilities there drenajes opened, waste without gather and streets in wretched State.  
 While the enterprises would instantly terrabytes transmitted information to continent remote, transport and working at a rate of almost medieval.  
 As a result, the enterprises in Bangalore have their own services of buses, sign up to private providers of drinking water and fitted generators to guard the interruptions in the electricity supply.  
 The State cannot settle the disaster because it is in business.  
 The debt of the government of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their income tax is dedicated to the payment of interest.  
 But the debt is not the result of excessive expenditure in the past.  
 The cost of the government of India is approximately 15% of GDP, compared with an average of around 40% of GDP in the OECD.  
 Rather, the financial difficulties of India problems of a tax system which designed and badly administered.  
 The rates and the rules for the personal income taxes and corporate are reasonable under international criteria.  
 However, the government of India levies imposed the income that are just about% of GDP, more or less half of what they perceive South Korea and other Asian Tigers.  
 The Commission in India represents around 25% of GDP, but even the richest farmers to pay taxes.  
 The companies on the export on the software industry and in other enjoy privileges, even though their employees themselves pay taxes envelopes their personal income.  
 Despite the fact that the rates are reasonable, tax evasion is popular.  
 This is happening because the government has not invested in terms of staff or systems for detecting the tax evaders, who rarely go to prison, and often cannot give bribes to leave the plight when the manage to catch.  
 On a more subtle, the evasion of duties' "on the direct income and the profits reflects the disorder in the system of indirect taxation" "on the production and consumption.  
 The tax on consumption represents more than 60% of indirect taxation of India, which in turn is the same proportion of their income in total.  
 The tax on consumption is set at 30% of the value of the production of a company.  
 After several concessions, exemptions and recargos.  
 For example, it applies to a rate of dealers' rights' of 8% to areas as food products, the cerillos, the hilados of cotton and computers.  
 In addition, it applies to a 'special tax consumption "(IEC) 8% to products which include the strands of poliéster, cars, air conditioners and tyres.  
 It also applies to a "additional tax consumption" (iac, not to confuse with IEC) "products of particular importance.  
 The exemptions from excise tax are many and complex, and include in enterprises with total annual income of less than 10 million rupias and companies located in areas of conflict or backward.  
 Overall, the exemptions are divided in budgetary categories, subdivididas in 259 items, 52 conditions and seven lists, each of which contains a number of items.  
 The exemptions call the abuse.  
 By an amount of money, we can convince the low level of officials, who have a considerable discretion to implement the conditions, that make interpretations favourable.  
 The goods with rates high (for example, the part pulido) are sold as goods with rates minors (for example, as a bit unpolished).  
 The tax evasion, the consumer is more contagious evasion of taxes on income and the profits.  
 If a company evade taxes on consumption and the tax rate is higher compared with the margins of systems before taxation of its industry, its competitors also have to do so, simply to survive.  
 When the cost increases, the governments impose rights "additional" or "special" which create more evasion.  
 The collection of direct taxation is also affected.  
 The corruption that pay the tax man in consumption, the difference between the value of the part pulido and rough diamond and inaccurate information on the income of real creating funds for "black 'which cannot be noted in the declarations of taxation.  
 In addition to affect the ability of the State to provide basic public services, the tricks to evade indirect taxation also puts people off to the companies to adopt technologies more productive, which require methods with large-scale operations.  
 But, due to the fact that it is easier to evade the indirect taxation operating various small units in place of a large, the economies of scale can create.  
 It must be emphasised that in the software industry, where all the households are exempted from the indirect taxation, the Indian companies operate on a scale of efficient.  
 Could the India to follow the example of China, where the rationalisation of indirect taxation in has created the conditions for a great known?  
 Or does the coalition governments of a vigorous democracy are not able to make such a reform?  
 Last year, the government of India, headed by the by, adopted legislation that ordered severe cuts in the budget presupuestal.  
 Appointed a special Group to make the necessary changes in the policies of taxation and expenditure.  
 In July of this year, the Group proposed to increase taxes (instead of cutting expenditure) through, among other things, the removal of the majority of the exemptions from excise taxes.  
 The new government of India, headed by the Party of the Convention also seems to be in favour of those proposals.  
 If the Party of the Convention and the opposition parties to the specific, it will be a great advance to maintain the economic growth of the country and to dispel the idea that the democracies cannot do what is needed in order to promote development.  
 What is wrong with Turkey?  
 On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most famous writers of Turkey, will be submitted before a Court in Istanbul to confront the accusation of "insulting the national identity" having shown in favour of an open debate on the Turkish genocide of 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and 1916.  
 There may face a judgment of three years in prison.  
 The attitude of Turkey of fine and sent to prison for those who do not follow the official line confirms my opposition to opening negotiations on its accession as a Member of the European Union.  
 In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that would accede to the EU at a future date and not specified.  
 Subsequently, the Council asked the European Commission which decided to October 2004 if Turkey were adequately met the political criteria - democracy, the rule of law and respect for the rights of minorities éticas- for its membresía.  
 That decision was one of the last of the Commission, Mr Romano Prodi, of which I was a Member.  
 Its 30 Members, 29 said that Turkey had met the criteria sufficiently how to proceed in the process.  
 I was the only one to disagree.  
 The own-initiative report from the Commission on Turkey, drawn up by Günter Verheugen, who at the time was in charge of the enlargement of the EU, shape my decision.  
 The document I mentioned that in 2003 of 21.870 submitted applications for asylum in the EU, which 2.127 were accepted.  
 In other words, the governments of the EU recognised in 2003 that the Turkish government had pursued to more than 2 000 of its citizens.  
 In the meantime, the Commission published a report on Turkey to which stated that the continued reforms, although to a lesser pace, under the guidance of the government of moderate Islamic Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’ s leadership.  
 However, the report also raised serious approaches to Alzheimer: continued violations of human rights, including torture; the influence of the military was still too high; freedom of expression was not universally; the non-Muslim religious minorities and cultural suffering discrimination; and there was a clear and definite opposition on the part of the power to violence against women.  
 There has been many changes since the start of the talks on membership in the EU, carried out in October.  
 Beyond the actual persecution to which, to an unacceptable behaviour.  
 In March 2005, the police dispersed violently a demonstration, which was international women's day.  
 In may, the largest trade Union of teachers was prohibited by promoting the education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.  
 In fact, the intolerance is even higher from the Turkish government.  
 The Minister of foreign Affairs, Abdullah Gül, suddenly cancelled a press Conference in Copenhagen as saw a journalist Kurdish between the public and the Democrats rejected to expel.  
 These actions and attitudes justify broadly my disagreement in October 2004.  
 However, even if we were to overcome, Turkey should not be admitted in the EU, because it is not a European country.  
 Christianity, feudalism, the renaissance, the enlightenment, democracy and the industrialisation we have developed in what are as Europeans, but we have not made it to the Turks in what are.  
 So I am not convinced that the reforms implemented in Turkey by the insistence of the European Commission will continue after the country Finally to accede to the EU.  
 Indeed, I suspect that there will be a step backwards.  
 Moreover, the admission of Turkey would lead inevitably to Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.  
 Certainly, the first three of these countries are more Europeans that Turkey.  
 Leaving aside the three Caucasus republics, but including the States that before they were Yugoslavia, the EU would happen to have close to 35 Members.  
 What kind of Union would be that?  
 The EU is not simply a club of friends.  
 It is based on the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.  
 The Commission, as guardian of the Treaties of the Union, we must protect these four fundamental freedoms, which means that at times must persuade and, if necessary, to force the Member States to change their legislation.  
 The policy of Sweden on the spirit of the law, Volkswagen in Germany and the discrimination against the funds of foreign investment in France are examples of cases that have done unpopular in the Commission.  
 But we were needed.  
 For when I left the Commission, had before me a fajo of 1 500 of these causes for infringement.  
 In other words, to be a Member of the EU will have to accept something even bigger measures which would affect the internal Affairs of a State.  
 That will be impossible to do with Members so different.  
 The EU is to become the victim of what the historian, Paul Kennedy called "imperial sobreextensión."  
 This would undermine beyond what is acceptable.  
 That is why the former French President, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, I feared that its membership of producing a stay put in the EU and the German Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, stated that "the membership of Turkey would be more of what the EU could endure."  
 However, the reason for more solid to oppose the membership of Turkey is a matter of democracy: the majority of the population of the EU simply do not want.  
 The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America  
 Where we look, Bolivia is not a typical Latin American country.  
 After Haiti, is the second most poor nation of Western hemisphere, and is even less stable, with a history of marked by more than 200 coups d 'état since its independence.  
 In a region with a strong past indigenous, but with a present break and isolated, Bolivia is, along with Guatemala, perhaps the only country in Latin America, where the indigenous peoples constitute the majority of the population.  
 Their topography and ethnic votes are generally autonomous, and even act as separatist forces that threaten the national unity of ways more serious than in any other country.  
 And, of course, is the only nation, along with no access to the sea in the subcontinent.  
 So it would be extremely unwise to extrapolate the current crisis Bolivian the rest of Latin America.  
 It is too simplistic to generalise: the institutions in all the other countries are much more sound, poverty (in particular the extreme poverty) is declining, and, to a large extent, the battle for the natural resources has been resolved.  
 Even in countries such as Iran, with huge reserves of oil and a government of mentality traditionally nationalist, the status quo which allows the foreign investment in energy resources has survived almost eight years of government, the President Chavez.  
 Although the existence of indigenous movements is a reality in many countries, the to the "araucanía" and the Amazon has never, in any country of Latin America has represented a real threat to the national integrity.  
 So the of Bolivia is not a crisis that may Herald others in the region, nor the vexed 'domino theory of ", supported both by Lyndon Johnson as by the che Guevara in the case of Bolivian, seems valid or even medium-level reasonable.  
 However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of the 'democratic deficit' suffering Latin America at present.  
 The elected governments have failed, for one reason or another, in Bolivia, Ecuador and Haiti.  
 Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is threatened by a reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.  
 None of these cases is identical to the others, since that include varying levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.  
 The question is what can be done about this situation, which contrasts markedly with the encouraging prospects which favoured does so only a few years ago.  
 At the last meeting of the organisation of American States in the United States, this, the United States took a good idea that others have had, and the support it, basically ended up with it.  
 The history of started a couple of years ago, when the former Minister of foreign Affairs when the Argentine and the United Nations programme for development were in charge of outline the report on democracy in Latin America.  
 They came to the conclusion that a system of early warning about crisis of democracy in the region would help to create actions before that things were to be out of control, as is the case today in Bolivia.  
 The and the team of the UN convinced the then President of Chile President that took the initiative and promote among a number of your colleagues.  
 It did, but the issue did not go very far.  
 In fact, the report on the development of democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, scarcely mentions it.  
 The United States and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean José Miguel insulza, resucitaron plan during the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but it was rejected due to the American reasonable fears that the idea was directed against Iran, combined with the anachronistic mistrust of the countries of Latin America are violated the sacrosanct principle of the intervention.  
 Despite the fact that the continent could not come to an agreement on the principle underlying the proposal, the idea of an early warning system deserves to receive attention.  
 At present, it is possible that is what the Community hemisférica could make with regard to what is happening in Bolivia, but the situation is preñada risks for everyone.  
 Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and the coca leaf, may be a democratic leader honestly, although disoriented, but it does have its supporters of authoritarian wishes?  
 That may perhaps Chavez not funding to, and to the other dissidents Bolivians, but do you really Venezuela and Cuba does not have the temptation of interfering in the country where the che Guevara died trying to create a guerrilla war for almost 40 years?  
 The Community businesses of the Bolivian region of Santa Cruz may not make reality their threat to be separated from the country, but I would prefer to share its reserves of oil and gas with the indigenous people of the Highlands, instead of the Brazilian manufacturing.  
 Before the events become to these ends, could be a good idea to which the OAS (not us) is involucrara.  
 The region is in need of such participation, with a compromise, with a timely and based on a platform of adequate democratic, that is enough of the traditional American intervention of the traditional indifference Latin America.  
 The deterioration of France?  
 The French are extremely sensitive (not to say that was put on the defensive) with regard to the stature of their country in the world.  
 The French State spending huge amounts of money on the improvement of its language and its culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware of the overall position of your country is no longer what it was ever again.  
 It is not surprising, then, that during the last presidential elections, the publication of a report from the European Commission, which claimed that economic France had last third the tenth place among the European countries in a period of ten years, has brought examinations of conscience and controversies. shortly afterwards, the President Jacques Chirac was indicted to its rival, Lionel Jospin, to bring about a deterioration of France.  
 The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought they had finished with this aspect of the controversy at show that France, Germany, Italy and great Britain have approximately the same levels of life per capita.  
 But the more general debate not gave in.  
 Again turned the information on "the deterioration of the French" during the street protests earlier this year against the reform of the pension system, the increasing disputes on fiscal policy, with the European Commission and the riots with the United States about the war in Iraq.  
 Currently, the book better sold in France is a controversial of written, falls (France which falls).  
 The book of the is full of appointments of maintaining and Napoleon.  
 In accordance with the author, the last great achievements of France was given in the 1970s, with the launch of the train fast, with, and the train.  
 Therefore, attacks and how to take its "talent shared to win elections and to make France a failure.  
 The success of the book is by its own symptom of a kind of "unease".  
 But, of what kind?  
 The evidence of degradation that presents the is not as strong as it is.  
 For example, points to the loss of industrial jobs as the clearest indication of the deterioration of France.  
 Nevertheless, the de-industrialisation is common to all the advanced countries.  
 In fact, in France, is doing better than the majority of their rivals rich and, to that of Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has maintained the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector which had at the beginning of the 1970s.  
 Furthermore, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, foreign investment, in France, is doing very well.  
 According to a recent report from the Council of economic analysis, direct investment in France grew even reach 60 billion in 2001, almost double that in Germany.  
 The costs of competitiveness in the country also improved (20%) in the last three decades, since a greater productivity has balanced the rapid growth of wages.  
 But the heart of the economic problems of long term of France is precisely the fear to lose jobs manufacturing.  
 France is still a strong industrial power in traditional areas as the automotive and aerospace, but it is rezagando in markets, where innovative companies which disseminate new technologies.  
 For example, France just puts 30 thousand million dollars a year on research and development of high technology, in comparison with the 51 billion of Germany, 98 billion of Japan and the United States for a thousand million.  
 In short, the analysis of the aims in the wrong direction.  
 France has gone through a series of reforms of critical importance over the last two decades: liberalisation of economic and financial, removal of controls on prices and on the type of change, the end of the restrictions on credit, reduction of inflation and the liberalization of trade, the arrival of the euro and the globalisation sterilisation of companies in the country.  
 The French concern has nothing to do with any of them.  
 The problem with France is not achieved, the new world of that already form part.  
 The French State capitalism has died and France, it is hard to accept its demise.  
 In effect, France has to be the only country in which a Prime Minister, Mr Jospin, is the obligation to apologise to the day after having said on television that "the State is not omnipotent '.  
 There are many reasons behind this schizophrenia, French, but one of the main has to do with the political game of the last 20 years.  
 Even strike in France, there was a clear division between the right and the left.  
 Since then, the governments of both and as I moderaron their ideological positions in order to carry out the difficult process of adjustment towards Europe and globalisation.  
 A "shock therapy 'in the style of Mrs.  
 Thatcher makes two decades could have created a new environmental policy, but the slowness in reaching a consensus to approve the reforms Let the French people are living in a world and think in another.  
 This is one of the fundamental reasons for the disaster in which broke out during the last presidential campaign, as the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, became the second round of the elections  
 The rise of the extreme left, which was the 10% of the voting in the presidential campaign, it is also proof of the political failure.  
 France needs a revolution, a monetary policy which, if it wants to be reconciled with the fact, part of which is that the "deterioration of the French 'is a fear that the French themselves have created.  
 The value of the European values  
 European leaders have resurrected the constitutional pláticas which was suspended in December because of a dispute by voting rights.  
 Of course, these disputes are subject to arrangements, which is likely to be achieved.  
 It is still necessary to establish is a clear understanding of what we are trying to achieve that the Constitution.  
 Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: solidarity and subsidiarity.  
 Both principles stand at the crossroads of the philosophy, politics, the economy, and the sociology of law.  
 They have been here for years in the legal and institutional framework of the European Union - in the Treaties, in the Charter of fundamental rights (which the quotation in its preamble), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.  
 In short, form part of the history and the ideals of the EU.  
 But what do we actually mean solidarity and subsidiarity?  
 Let us consider the solidarity, which is open to at least two interpretations: solidarity static, which only has to do with the distribution of income and wealth, and the broader concept of solidarity dynamic, which also refers to the production of income and wealth.  
 In the post-war history of European integration, the solidarity dynamic had in in the first period (the European coal and steel Community) both in its strategy of economic development (reconstruction) as in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.  
 That does not mean that the solidarity dynamic to delete subsequently: the European monetary Union, for example, is another of its expressions.  
 So, although some countries have not benefited immediately with the euro, accepted all ways because we were convinced that in the long run, this would have a positive impact.  
 In other words, the solidarity dynamic means favouring policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.  
 However, as I stated the growth of GDP in the EU, the dynamic of solidarity has been weakened in the last decade.  
 What is most worrying is the delay in research.  
 The implementation of the Lisbon strategy, the EU adopted in 2000, and that it promised to create the most competitive economy in the world, is threatened by an ever greater emphasis on solidarity, however, which is reflected in the high costs of social security and in the higher taxes that are needed to finance it.  
 The predominance of the static solidarity must be an ageing population, which, aunada to a slow growth, has created structural fiscal imbalances.  
 One of the major challenges for the future of the EU is to tackle the superiority of the solidarity would be directed towards the elderly people of solidarity on the dynamic that benefits to young people.  
 After all, the European Union cannot continue to allow the consumer to outstrip the investment needed to guarantee the future prosperity.  
 Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity in that it also has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.  
 The vertical subsidiarity is linked with the distribution of power between the various levels of government and of sovereignty: the EU, the Member States, the regions and the local authorities.  
 The application of this principle is the most well-known federalism.  
 In the European Treaties can find a clear expression of the vertical subsidiarity.  
 But, it is enough to accommodate the institutional and constitutional arrangements which are emerging in the Union?  
 The horizontal subsidiarity has to do with the responsibility and the freedom of the human being, and the social and economic forces.  
 It encompasses the relations between the State, society and the market.  
 But the partnership and the market have their own rights and sovereignty, which are not granted by the State.  
 Well, the problem is to guarantee the independence of each area.  
 An example of subsidiarity directive is the European internal market, which created a new type of economic freedom and increased competition between businesses to eliminate the protection that the review of the national governments.  
 The horizontal subsidiarity means that, in both the social and economic, the State cannot violate the freedom and responsibility, which must be respected to the greatest extent possible.  
 It also means that a "top power" must give support when the freedom and responsibility of the individual are not sufficient to achieve the necessary resources for human dignity.  
 However, that these must be implemented in a way that promote the potential genocide of individuals, society and the market.  
 But that is only possible when the role of subsidiarity directive is clearly defined, what happens in the European Treaties, the Charter of fundamental rights or the work of the European Convention.  
 In short, the solidarity has become redistribution in place of growth (which is the way in which the current generation expresses its solidarity with future generations), while the subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, rather than a careful distinction between State borders, civil society and the market.  
 Today, the definitions of both values favouring the State.  
 In effect, focus on the growth based on the market is identified frequently with the values semi-ajenos from the United States.  
 But those values are deeply rooted in Europe, and it is necessary to them out in the light of new.  
 The EU must restore its economic vitality via a model of solidarity and subsidiarity which is more balanced in favour of the market and the information society, and which reduce the socio-economic by the State.  
 The institutions of the State must provide public goods (as defence, justice and fiscal and monetary policy), society must offer goods or (as culture, education and assistance to the needy) and the market must provide economic goods (which are linked with the profits, growth and employment.  
 In the 21st century, Europe must reconsider the value of both principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if we want to achieve the goal of the historic integration: the freedom and the welfare of necessary to overcome the differences and divisions policies which led to the tragedies of the twentieth century.  
 That is the spirit in which it must draw the European Constitution.  
 The policy of the values  
 The debate about the us elections has not amainado.  
 How was the President George W. Bush get three million votes rather than Senator John Kerry and, Moreover, a Republican majority elected in both chambers of the Convention?  
 There is agreement on the answers, but two themes recur in many of the explanations.  
 One is the personality.  
 In times of uncertainty and threat, people had more confidence in the President aware that in the candidate who had not yet been put to the test.  
 The second issue is the values.  
 The people voted by a set of values rather than by specific policies.  
 Indeed, some (it) were in line with the policies of majority, but in any way, given its vote to, because we were like "to" with its general attitude.  
 It is clear that the United States is currently are deeply divided in terms of voting.  
 A European States blue (Democrats) in the North and West surrounding a vast area of red (Republican) in the centre and the South.  
 Moreover, the divisions reproduce at local level.  
 It is no longer necessary to trace the limits of the constituencies for the benefit of any political Party in particular.  
 The people of fact tends to move to areas where the majority share their values, whether they be Republican or democratic.  
 What are precisely those values?  
 They have to see, or that it is what we heard, with 'God, weapons and practices'.  
 Religion plays a role, including the true verbatim from the Bible in regard to the history of the creation.  
 The holding of a weapon is proof of the last of individualism, and using weapons in wars is deplorable.  
 These practices and other practices' modern 'refused by excessive.  
 As I raised the political economist recently: "the candidacy of Bush was drawn up in order to achieve a majority and some 60 million people the opportunity of being well with themselves".  
 What is all this a phenomenon of us, or there is anything similar trends in other parts?  
 A response is that as a phenomenon of the United States, the policy of values can have majority now, but in no way is in general.  
 Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.  
 The personality without doubt matter, and under the political differences and can also be issues of values that have arisen in the area.  
 But the traditional policies based on the fundamental values we disagree on play a role of falling in the elections.  
 For example, the Prime Minister, Tony Blair, leader of the next important that will face, use the argument of the personality and talks of policies, but it is above all a set of values of the Middle class.  
 When speaking of "modernisation" or "to the things the 21st century ', suggest a mix unfamiliar but attractive of change and stability.  
 That has been left to the Conservative opposition without an effective response.  
 Even issues such as the tax cuts and stricter asylum laws do not achieve the fibre of the values that the Republican Party of the United States has failed to play.  
 The situation is similar in Germany, where is the influence of the policy of values is even less.  
 The German debate continues to remain in great measure a debate of policies.  
 When the opposition to the government pláticas offers on the reform of the system of health, or more recently on combating unemployment, the underlying competition is about capabilities, rather than about values.  
 However, under the fields of common political debate in England and Germany and in other parts of Europe merodean shocks of values.  
 The parties are fighting for those who can make that "feel well with ourselves, but perhaps not as full account of this only in part, it is a question of policies.  
 It is not likely that religion should become a factor of European policy; the opinion polls show that the religious observance is one of the few large differences between Americans and Europeans.  
 The weapons also have a place in the different European mind; what the Europeans consider important is its absence.  
 It is also unmistakable a spate of values of peace on the continent.  
 But the issue of the politically correct ('the practices ") up to now also plays a role underestimated.  
 What is most important is that Europe is very divided on the Europeans, to measure the "national" arises in each State of the continent.  
 It is a matter of values, inspired by the fear.  
 The people want to know where they belong, and in that process back against the United States and Europe or against Europe and towards their country.  
 Either way, out of the scope of the policies, and even of the policy and ingresamos has the dubious domains of symbols and myths.  
 This, in any case, it is the risk of leading to a democratic countries, since the policy of values is rather dangerous.  
 Reintroduces fundamental divisions in democratic societies whose major achievement was precisely to eradicate the fundamentalism of the policy.  
 A public debate illustrated must be a dispute about policies framed in a Community of values.  
 Therefore, to insist on it is a main aim of the policy of freedom.  
 The next was the interests  
 One swallow does not make a summer, and a month of growth, employment and the prices in the United States does not mean that the federal reserve is no longer concerned by the economic and malestares deflation.  
 But the day will come when the world will begin to raise interest rates, to measure the Central bankers are prepared to withstand the slow upward trend of inflation.  
 When that day comes, as is the next autumn, in 2005 or 2006 or 2007-estados linked and the global economy will face financial product vulnerabilities of success in the last three years has been the stimulation of monetary to stop reductions in production and to moderate the unemployment.  
 The rates of interest in the short term are alarmingly low: barely 2% in the euro zone, the 1% in the EU and and in Japan.  
 The expansionist monetary policy has been successful, but only in regard to reduce interest rates at historically low levels, and to convince the investors that the costs of the appropriations will be maintained at their current levels for a long time.  
 The main outcome of the monetary incentives have been raising prices fixed assets: anything which will yield dividends or incomes is much more attractive, and by the same, much more valuable in terms of money - which are very low rates of interest and it is expected that continue to do so.  
 That explains the large gaps that exist between the current prices of goods roots in the EU, the actions in new York, London and Frankfurt, and the bonds in the long term in all parties, and what one would normally which are its fundamental values.  
 What will happen when the banks will begin to raise the rates of interest?  
 In 1994, the increases in rates in the short term to increases in the long term - and falls in prices of bonds to long plazo-de at least double the number of what the common models predecían at that time.  
 In addition, the rates of interest in the peripheral economies in development experienced growth much more that the core social forward.  
 Thus, the first danger for which there is a worry included in further - which it is more likely that the rates of interest are eleven-es other wave of financial crises of the emerging markets.  
 For countries such as Mexico, Turkey, Argentina, Brazil, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand, the track record of the 1990s shows that the differences in rates of interest may extend and the flows of capital can reverse extremely fast, regardless of the officials of the IMF and the analysis of the largest banks look favourably on the policies of a country.  
 The differences in rates of interest of the emerging markets today are abnormally low.  
 The international flows of capital - to include those who arrive in the eu-todavía are not the level that is associated with the irrational exuberance ", but there is still time for this to happen before we begin to raise interest rates.  
 This is a prospect which, because of the lesson that we left the 1990s was that nobody should overestimate the stability of the international financial flows.  
 The second danger is derived from the high value of the goods in the heart of industrial forward.  
 The current thinking in the federal reserve - with which I am acuerdo-parece informático-tecnológica continues to be that the revolution, that the rate of growth of the production potential in the EU is still extremely accelerated and that, therefore, the breach of production is relatively broad.  
 It means that, in fact, it will be necessary to remain low rates of interest for a considerable period of time.  
 In addition, the confidence in the federal reserve is high and have been taken from the rates of interest to the last vestiges of risk premiums inflationary.  
 As a result, even after the levels of production will return to its potential, the rates of interest will remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980s and 1990s.  
 All this, of course, are good news for those who own assets as bonds in the long term, actions and goods roots.  
 In effect, to raise prices in the long term of goods was just the objective of lowering the rates of interest: after all, make more wealthy to the bonds and above all to the owners of goods roots is an incentive for expenditure.  
 But the problem is that even if it is expected that the rates of interest to remain low for a time, not to be so low indefinitely.  
 The case is that when the rates of interest are raised, the value of the goods will fall.  
 In those periods - particularly when the value of the assets of falling quickly and sustancial-podemos give account exactly the ability of our Central bankers to comply with its main task: to reduce the volatility of the financial and to promote economic stability.  
 Also in these times we are conscious of the number of people who have bonds in the long term, goods roots or not because I consider that the stocks are attractive prices current in connection with the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.  
 That is a crucial issue for the responsible policies, because those who purchased assets of long term due to what seemed to be an increase on the prices are such that it will be dealt with regard to prices are given signs to be a step backwards.  
 In particular, the trade deficit of the EU, it is quite easy to see as an enormous source of instability if the prices of goods in the long term questions in a meaningful way.  
 Certainly the challenges that will face the builders of economic policy in the world over the next few years will be different to those who have faced since the collapse of the bubble of the world.  
 The risks associated with inflation perhaps are less dangerous that the wealth of the fall of the production and the threat of deflation.  
 But, as we learned in the 1990s, that does not mean that the challenges of the future will be easier to manage.  
 The future opposed the United States  
 Recently I knew something interesting: the American economists of international finance and the American macroeconomistas aimed at the analysis and of us have very different views (in fact, opposite) on the likely implications of the enormous deficit of current account of us.  
 The economists of international finance see likely that in the United States is a financial crisis, followed by a recession painful and perhaps continued.  
 The macroeconomistas aimed at the analysis and, in contrast, see the imminent fall in the value of the dollar, not as a crisis, but as an opportunity to speed up the growth.  
 In general terms, to see the situation in the following way: at some point in the future, the Central banks foreigners will be less willing to continue to buying so-called large amounts of values in dollars in order to underpin the role of currency.  
 When they have completed their programmes from buying dollars on a massive scale, the value of the dollar will fall... and they will be strong.  
 However, according to this vision, as we shirk the value of the dollar American exports will be making it more attractive for foreigners, employment will be strengthened and reincorporará workforce in export sector, which will live a new stage of boom.  
 Will it that occurred in England, after which it left the anchoring of its exchange rate and Let the pound is depreciara with regard to the Deutschmark, or what happened in the United States at the end of the 1980s, when the dollar is depreció opposed to the sterling, the Deutschmark and (what is most important) the Japanese yen.  
 The economists of the international Community to see a future much bleaker.  
 Seeing that the purpose of the programmes of buying dollars on a massive scale of the Central banks will mean not only a decline in the dollar, but also a boost in the rates of interest of long term of us, which will immediately at the expense of consumer and stifle the cost of investment in the wake of a small tactics.  
 There is no doubt that the economists of the international Community also see that American exports will benefit to measure that the value of the dollar, but the retardos fall in demand are such that the momentum exporter place a year or two after the falls in the cost of consumption and investment.  
 Eight to ten million people will have to change of employment, the services sector and the construction of the sectors related to exports and the goods that compete with imports, which implies that will increase the structural unemployment.  
 Furthermore, may be a panic financial: the large financial institutions with debts of the short term and assets of long term will be in difficulties facing an enormous increase in the long term interest rates of so-called in dollars.  
 This disparity may lead to tensions costs and bankruptcies of way as easy as the debts of the short term in dollars and the active in local currency of the banks and caused during the Mexican crisis and East Asia in the 1990s, and the crisis in Argentina in the present decade.  
 When the economists of the international finance describe this stage, the macroeconomistas aimed at the analysis and of us respond that sounds a case of monetary policy incompetent.  
 Why the federal reserve should allow the rates of interest of long term have a great boost just because other Central banks have completed their programmes from buying dollars?  
 What should not intervene and replaced with their own purchasing the Treasury bonds of us, maintaining that the rates of interest of long term at a level that will lead to full employment?  
 In it, the economists of the international Community respond that the federal reserve does not have the power to do such a thing.  
 If forced to choose between the full employment and the stability of prices, the economists of the international finance told that the federal reserve individuals who are the stability of prices, since its institutional memory of the 1970s, when inflation was in the clouds, continues to be very strong.  
 Therefore, since a fall in the value of the dollar is increasing the price of imports and acts as a negative shock at the side of the proposal in the economy, the federal reserve will increase, not decrease, the rates of interest and sell bonds in place of buying them.  
 On both sides of this debate there is serious economists who respect greatly.  
 I am not sufficiently wise to say what is the right side, but certainly know what I hope I am wrong.  
 The gorrones Europe  
 In the United States, the States which have inadequate fiscal policies are facing a punishment.  
 Their bonds are dealt with a reduction in connection with the States in better administered.  
 The service more raised of the debt that have to pay --en certain grado-- acts as a form of discipline against the temptation of spending now and pay afterwards.  
 Of course, the discipline of the market is not perfect: the bond market in large measure "and not" taxpayers future involved (as the payments promised by pensions).  
 However, this discipline is forced, together with our own internal procedures presupuestales of each State, has avoided that was given a crisis measures on a massive scale at government level in the EU since the great depression.  
 Let us now move on to the case of Europe.  
 Before the adoption of the euro, there were many crises, in the nation States of the South of the continent, which were waves of higher inflation.  
 But with the establishment of the single currency was closed the path for the solution of the financial crises through inflation, since that now the European Central Bank (ECB) policing monetary policy.  
 However, even though the nation States can no longer look to the inflation in order to solve their financial imbalances, the single currency allows them to use the capacity for indebtedness which duly I belong to other Members of the European Union to extend its adventures of expenditure and postpone the accountability policies by their periods of periods for good.  
 To avoid this possibility, the EU created the stability and growth Pact: the government deficits were to be minors to 3% of GDP.  
 Last week, the government of Germany --que ever was the Member State of the EU more cautious and disciplinado-- broke the rules of the Pact on fiscal discipline for the fifth year in a row, and what did without (large) apologise.  
 The Minister of finance, finance, stated that he hoped that the European Commission to impose any sanction in Germany said that if it is not taken any steps, the credibility of the Pact would be at risk.  
 Therefore, Germany would not sanctions, on this occasion, as it did for the last two and a half years.  
 But finance also made it clear that he hoped that the sanctions in response to our measures intended to Germany from% of GDP to be in large measure token, and punishments that I costaran to its government or to its economy great thing.  
 The stability and growth Pact is not working --o at least not todavía-- anywhere near as it was intended to do so.  
 And the discipline of the market?  
 What is confined to the will of the German government to give more debt and have major deficits because the market recognises and punish the nation States that allow their positions, was watered down?  
 In a word, not.  
 The rates of interest of sovereign debt so-called in euros from the twelve governments of the eurozone are very similar.  
 Therefore, the market does not care about the countries that have different potential to generate exports to Fund the financial flows needed to pay the debt, or different relations debt current and planned - GDP.  
 Willem Buiter of the university of Amsterdam and and convince the university of London, feel that it has been available to the ECB to accept, in effect, all of the debt of the eurozone as a guarantee of what has undermined the disposal of the market to act as a special measures to make that has wisely.  
 As a marginal part of the German debt is used as a guarantee for a loan of short term or as the basis of a compromise of purchase for obtaining liquidity, is much more likely that its value is determined by the terms in which the ECB accepts the guarantees that their basics.  
 The deal now give the ECB to all those debts as sources of powerful of liquidity reserve casts for soil any analysis of the differences of risk sovereign in the long term.  
 In the long term, that is dangerous.  
 Both the discipline of the market and the management measures are required to create a fair chance of obtaining stability of prices in the long term.  
 If there is no mention of the punishment of the market for a behaviour that can become reckless or the institutional levers which give a voice to the future generations, run serious risks --tal again today or tomorrow, but some day and for the rest of our lives.  
 When the time comes, the arrival of the single currency and the way in which it has implemented the euro are generating more and more concern.  
 The policy as a whole throughout the euro zone is too deflacionaria.  
 They are not doing the transfers required for the common currency is acceptable in the regions that are losing out and which are already in recession, when the ECB becoming more restrictive policy.  
 The institutional foundations of a stable, long-term policy measures are being eroded.  
 And now, and convince argue convincingly, the ECB is giving the market but margin that we should have to reward those who save and punish those who throw away.  
 There is still no movements of soil, and not the will for some time.  
 But the land under the euro could begin to tremble if things do not change.  
 Milosevic and over the sham as judgment:  
 The judgments of the war criminals is used to be a serious matter.  
 Let us remember the pictures of illicit taciturnos, and sit on the sidelines in.  
 Some leaders has even went colgados following judgments relatively short but fair.  
 At the moment, the most evil of legal proceedings against the leaders of the world have been converted into a farce.  
 The judgment of Saddam Hussein and his henchmen from Party Ba'athist ath is an endless series of scandals.  
 The defendants used a ruse after another and, shows its contempt in every possible way.  
 It is difficult to wait a result that is legitimate in the eyes of the people of Iraq or in the world.  
 In the meantime, the judgment of Slobodan Milosevic became funeral after four years of testimonies boring and a cost of over 200 million dollars.  
 In Cambodia, the United Nations and the government to take nearly ten years wavering over the form of judgment on the Members of the survivors of the Khmer over.  
 The mass murderers who participated in the twentieth century were condemned to die in popular uprisings or to prosecution for their crimes as it is, if not died in charge.  
 Who can enorgullecer that the last Communist leader of Romania, Nicolai Ceaucescu, and his wife to be implemented without even the slightest appearance of a fair trial?  
 The formalities of a real, always seem to better than justice snapshot, although the final result is also the death.  
 At present there are two possible ways to act against a tyrant driven out.  
 A nation may lead to its own former leaders, as did the Argentinians in the years 1980 with the general responsible for the disappearance of more 5,000 of their fellow citizens.  
 At international level, the model of still available to create further judgments, although under the conditions weasel with which the victorious powers on occasions allocated responsibility for the crimes, as in the case of the 'crimes against humanity', which were not as defined in the time that is committed.  
 There was a time in which we can see the benefits of both the judgements of the national and international.  
 The internal judgments have made it possible to the local Community to ease its sadness at being closely involved in the process.  
 As judges and jury, the position of the accused also could exert greater sensitivity in evaluating the blame because given account of the harsh conditions in which a dictator deposed had taken its decisions.  
 The judgment of the generals in Argentina was a ritual successful on the painful transition of the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience, there have been many doubts.  
 Even after the sentences, the generals were sufficiently powerful to achieve that ends the judgments and after obtaining the sorry the incoming President.  
 The policy of Argentina remain enredada on the legal implications of those judgments of 20 years ago.  
 At international level, the decision of the security Council of the United Nations to establish the international criminal Court for the former Yugoslavia – ICTY as it is known in English) was also received with great confidence.  
 The number of decisions taken in effect ICTY founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.  
 But after, the judges have the misfortune to be fulfilled their dream more ambitious in its Court judge in the archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.  
 However, it is not clear how the Serbs have managed to Milosevic in a local judgment.  
 Much would have been dependent on the political Party that actually adhered to the Court.  
 At international level, the fear was that so much political rather too right.  
 The judgment of Milosevic had to be more than just; it was to be a symbolic of the justice of the UN.  
 For it is allowed to Milosevic to defend itself --un big mistake in terms of the duration and efficiency of the judgment.  
 Do not set a limit on the number of witnesses that the subsidy was called to testify on the same horrific stories of the aggression and brutality of Serbia.  
 Take many months to determine what was what went wrong, and why the judgment lasted four years, which is a scandal.  
 My in our bones is that the officials well-intentioned Court was left to influence and by the Commission for the peace and reconciliation of South Africa, a model declared in the schools of law as the alternative wished to the justice of punishment.  
 In the South African processes, the most important issue was not the future of the accused but the past of the victims.  
 Encouraged to all the victims to count its history and listened to the accused.  
 In the case of the massacres which are given in the twentieth century, those recitals can take decades.  
 Encouraging the victims to talk and to give it after the accused the right to obstruct the process of proclaiming its merits and political leader amounting to a formula for the Adjournment ad infinitum.  
 One lesson we have learned from the judgements of Milosevic and shows is that we must not lead to judgment men or women with the aim of putting an end to his appeal charismatic.  
 Trastornarán the judgment --sobre all if it allows them to defend themselves mismos-- and use the Court to assert their careers.  
 The tyrants only should be judged after they have clearly been defeated.  
 Ironically, was a benefit to the courts of being composed of representatives of the victorious powers.  
 They were a constant reminder to goering, seated and his henchmen the allies had the control and that the Nazis were it defeated.  
 The clear objective of the judgment was always to punish the guilty, not to decide on the way in which it write history.  
 The tragedy in the cases of Milosevic and shows is that history has still not had been written and was enjuiciando history itself.  
 The indecision resulting from those who were in charge gave rise to international --tanto procedures as nacionales-- which facilitate the fantasies of demand and return.  
 In the case of parties, that we still can become reality.  
 The economic divide of Iraq  
 Those who look to Iraq to see a nation divided between communities Shiites, sunnitas and Kurdish.  
 But the growing gap between the rich and the poor in Iraq is equally essential, which has contributed to the rising to as much as the struggles sectarian and the opposition to the occupation, headed by the United States.  
 When Iraq was released, the majority of the people, especially the poor, started to have hopes that reached a charismatic leader of the rescatara the harsh reality of daily life.  
 Since we have raised with fear, had no idea of how we could apply the democracy in its society and in what way it could help human rights groups and other civic organisations to shape the future.  
 Very soon Iraq stood up to a new social division.  
 On the one hand, were the people how to operate when in a democracy, how to reach the power and to fulfil its ambitions.  
 Learn to speak the language of democracy and in the process obtained money and influence and reclutaron to independent organisations to defend their rights and privileges.  
 However, the other side is the huge population of Iraqis without power, including the widows and divorced women and abandoned that have not who do over them and their children.  
 For these people to democracy and human rights does not mean anything.  
 Are ignorant, poor and are ill.  
 They are the victims of an education system that colapsó for more than a decade and have few skills which will allow them to find employment in the ruined economy of Iraq.  
 During the regime of Saddam was not made efforts to raise the standard of living of the poor.  
 I visited the extensive slums there from Iraq and I found families that live in homes that hardly have ceiling, which are infestadas of insects and that the loose black waters under the doors.  
 Day and night live in the dark.  
 These families, who do not need more than foods, decent housing and the possibility of having an employment, awaiting the death heard the terrible cries of their children who are dying of hunger.  
 When I met with the women who live in those who, I flooded with questions: does the democracy we give food and homes?  
 What will prevent the men golpeen their wives?  
 Could you give citizenship to our children?  
 Should we give the right of divorciarnos of their husbands which we left?  
 My answer to all these questions was "yes".  
 Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent home, learn and work and give citizenship to their children and will be equal to men.  
 But we must work hard and to make all possible efforts to demand their rights.  
 They replied: "the taught us over 35 years to be unemployed, and temerosas silent.  
 What can we do now? "  
 In these areas the deprived where the majority of the Iraqi people, people are prey to the temptations bitter.  
 Many are beyond the scope of the political leaders and government.  
 Fall easily in the violence, the theft and sabotage.  
 Poverty leads to some to receive money to carry out acts of violence, instigados by the appeal of a false heroism they could not put into practice over the regime of Saddam.  
 Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq that has made the people back to them in fact to kill.  
 Although the current conditions of Iraq take many young people to the violence, I am convinced that the only thing that needs to be done in order to rescue them is given jobs and decent housing.  
 The jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives through a serious work.  
 We must not use jobs where we are working to disguise an army of unemployed.  
 We must give people jobs that will enable them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.  
 By nature, every individual person seeking to show that it is a useful for their society.  
 But the culture that Saddam created persuaded by the Iraqi people that the only way to obtain authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.  
 To overcome those ideas will take time and active economy, which means that the new Iraqi government will have to have a limited power which allow the private sector to grow and which at the same time allow a popular understanding of democracy and human rights.  
 The religious groups are willing to contribute to that process.  
 Likewise, we can reinstate the technocrats who worked on the government of the form that they will also have the opportunity to stay in their country.  
 Last, but not least, we must facilitate loans to the families to help to build a decent life.  
 Above all, the government must make every effort to convince the Iraqis poor value of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the Constitution to fulfil their aspirations of a better life.  
 It will not be easy to achieve that in a country in which many people think that violate the law is an act of heroism.  
 But we have also learned that the Iraqi power must not be concentrated in a few hands and establish justice requires the fight against corruption in all its forms.  
 For the Constitution to work as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, the Iraqis poor must learn to make up this fight.  
 The identity of the Islamic  
 At the moment, where is that volteemos, is used and abused in Islam (it) as a political force.  
 Some women only used as called to act; many in the West (and in other places) what they perceive as a "another" to contain and excluded.  
 As the, I experiment directly on both sides of this debate.  
 The reason why the Islam seems to Western eyes a religion of what "another 'is that we in the West has been given a systematic destruction of religion.  
 Of course, it is not the religion that has disappeared from the West of modern life, but what we can do the religious institutions about the behaviour of individual.  
 Religion in the modern world is an experience much more staff and spiritual than ever.  
 However, it also in Islam is giving a process of destruction of the experience of religion.  
 The politicisation of Islam is replacing the authority of the kind of religion, the ulema.  
 As in the West, the experience of the Islamic religion is becoming more staff.  
 One of the results is the interpretation of the texts religious personally that are making the Muslims, including in political activists, intellectuals and women.  
 Further, it is the vulgarización knowledge religious, abusing the lessons of the Koran and out of context to support political ends.  
 Who decides now what is right and what is wrong in Islam?  
 Who has the authority to interpret the texts religious?  
 Who can issue a fatwa "or" to "this"?  
 Today, the activism and terrorism offer, or rather forced, a new source of legitimacy.  
 So, are those who decide what lay means and what not Islam, without the authority of religious schools and of a specialist training.  
 Indeed, at the moment you interpret across the political actors and movements of cultural and religious institutions.  
 The destruction has allowed in the event of a local and national social link to forge links imaginary between all the women who feel oppressed or displaced people on all sides.  
 In that way, the Islam can join in following that before they were deeply divided: the Muslim spiritual Sufis and the canonizados of women; the Shias and the sunnitas; the Conservative Saudi Arabia and the revolutionary Iran.  
 At the same time, Islam is a shift, with the believers are leaving rural areas to go to the cities, including those in the West.  
 Many see this motion as somewhat negative, and to highlight the fact that these people are uprooted socially, which leads to the enajenación and, to some, the terrorism.  
 But social mobility is also a precondition for creating a modern vision.  
 Of course, through the migration, the women experience a sense of alienation, if it is not that of rompimiento total, its origins.  
 Thus, their experience of religion is a kind of new, private institutions teológicas, national or State.  
 The experience of religious becomes a form of social imagination, within which reconstruyen a feeling of belonging to the Islam in areas of new and strange.  
 It is not the distance of modern life, but the proximity to it that starting a return to the religious identity.  
 In effect, the majority of the radicalismos problems in groups, for their experiences of mobility and movement, know the secular political thinking and urban life:.  
 Lost in its new environment, Islam becomes its anchor.  
 But for that anchor works, it is necessary to liberate the Islam of its traditional position of Pravda-style, passive and docile before the currency.  
 In drawing a veil or the head, the claim the right places for the sentence in the work or school and to demand special foods, the Muslims are clearly identified as such.  
 You are saying to all that the surrounding that are more zealous and meticulous in their religious observance that those that limit their religions in the private life.  
 For example, women do not generally regarding the veil as a sign of degradation and to Muslim women.  
 However, to be a stigma, for women has become a positive sign of its affirmation of the Islamic identity.  
 The Muslim women young people in Europe to illustrate perfectly this transformation.  
 Girls adopting the pañoleta on the head in the French and German schools are close in many respects (namely, the youth culture, the date and the language) to their fellow Members of sort that their mothers, without education and that remain in the House.  
 The use of the pañoleta in the scope of the European public, these girls are inadvertently altering the symbol and the role of the Muslim women.  
 This tendency to go beyond the pañoletas.  
 All the Western women have a twofold sense of belonging, a cultural capital double.  
 Defined themselves, through their religions, but also have acquired knowledge secular universal.  
 Given that we have a twofold, cultural capital can move with relative freedom between different activities and gaps (the home, school, the youth associations and the places of recreation urban).  
 To be Muslim and Islamic is not the same.  
 What we are witnessing at present is a shift of a Muslim identity towards an Islamic identity.  
 The religious for the Muslim is shifting from private towards the public.  
 The question is whether the search for all of the identity cannot be met with pañoletas and a wide public acceptance of the Islamic religious practices, or if the positive statement of the most essential a renunciation of the currency.  
 A new era for the Islamic science?  
 For some hundreds of years, when the science and mathematics went through a period of great inventions, a region of the world is highlighted.  
 There is veneraba to teachers of those disciplines, medicine has progressed quickly and the people of common interests in the way in which work nature.  
 It is not surprising that this region were respected worldwide.  
 In the other half of the world is castigaba known and even led to the death of the scientists.  
 Mathematics were banned because it was considered outside the religion and later were subordinate to this.  
 The levels of life were taxes.  
 The prosperous region was the Middle East Islamic, while Europe ignorant remained largely in poverty.  
 Both regions had governments religious (historians have not reached agreement on the role and the nature of the religions in this context) but the sciences flourished in only one of them.  
 Now, of course, the roles of the Middle East and West Islamic have traded.  
 Since the second world war, the United States have been the undisputed leader in scientific issues.  
 Throughout this period, the brightest students have taken their homelands attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutes.  
 Until recently, more than half of the egresados in the fields of mathematics, science and engineering in the United States had been born in abroad.  
 Many of these talents stayed after its strength, and both industry and the government used.  
 In the meantime, the Islamic cultures engaged in a historic stage in the life sciences are equipped with a democratic influence and avoid.  
 Even in those countries where the income tankers might encourage a number of investigations, the Arab measures governing these investments, and as a result of their societies have not been successful everything that could have been.  
 Recently, a desire to get a major political ones has encouraged the Islamic Nations to invest in technology and where that is more note in Pakistan and Iran ’ s nuclear ambitions.  
 But if these weapons have political weight, the scientific concepts that support are old and mundane issues.  
 It is the most significant ones which derives from incubate ideas, that the result of the products of previous findings.  
 Let us imagine the influence that there would be if a Pakistani Institute outside the world leader in research on cancer.  
 What would change the political rhetoric if the researchers omán descubrieran the key to eliminate the AIDS?  
 This is an opportunity which has not been taken.  
 But there is another, and not only for the Islamic societies.  
 The United States have committed serious errors recently.  
 The "questions of faith 'have replaced the science in all the government, starting with the President.  
 As politicians have changed reports of researchers - when the facts are contrary to the official thinking.  
 Driven by a management influenced by religion, the educational systems are changing its approach to the sciences' values'.  
 Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the possibility is more meagre and hard to get, what has decreased the flow of young talent to the American universities.  
 The scientific organisations - have protested, without getting results.  
 At the same time, the tax laws have been changed to make more wealthy investors in the short term, which discourages the long-term investment in research.  
 In the war in Iraq has spent means billion dollars, approximately the same number of which is spent on supporting all the basic research in a thousand years.  
 Even if the United States are an average age of fundamentalist, clearly run the risk of losing its domination worldwide in the field of research.  
 Japan recognised the link between the political influence and science in the decade of the 1980.  
 The objective of Japan, social, and the President of the right of right delivered a round of speeches that recopilaron and published in 1986, in a book entitled 'has been no (, which may not say).  
 Esbozaban a national strategy in which it was understood that the influence of the scientific world sprang from such leadership.  
 The Central idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other Nations' control of the food chain of the military technology.  
 The title of the book relates to the plan, "no" to the influence of the United States and Japan check that military key technologies.  
 Building a knowledge-based economy by using the oil wealth is clearly as possible.  
 For example, therefore, as the majority of the States of the South of the United States, ever was economically poor and was in decline.  
 Although had income tankers, the flow of dollars to an economy by itself does not increase prosperity as much as might be imagined.  
 That therefore decided to spend their money from the oil in an educational background.  
 At the moment, this Fund is about this at the university of 15 and distributed between 15 universities.  
 The effect has been impressive: the aerospace manufacturing almost disappeared from California but are flourishing in Texas.  
 A multitude of centres and telecommunications companies have mudado in Texas, including the Canadian giant of telecommunications.  
 Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, therefore has a strong manufacturing the economies in the world.  
 There is no reason for which we were not able to get the same result in the Middle East.  
 But first, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a heritage of which we should be proud.  
 The debate on Iran over Iraq  
 No country in the Middle East is pending from the events of the war in Iraq that Iran.  
 The geographical proximity, intense and bloody history of conflicts with the future of Saddam Hussein, the links with the religious and emotional and Shia and the concerns about the United States and its policies in the region are all ties that bind Iran with its neighbour.  
 Given the current tensions with the USA, Iran is particularly worried by the likelihood that the Americans to be established to protect because in the neighbouring nation, as well as by the dominant role of the USA in the determination of the future of the pos-saddam.  
 To those who are out of the country, may prove difficult to pursue the internal discussions in Iran, but these exist and are intensive, although not always be visible to the public international more general.  
 There are three general approaches that can be recognised in the debate about the present Iranian pos-saddam.  
 The pragmatic Iranians argue that inevitably Iran must cooperate with the USA, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.  
 For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in that you would be hostile, and should seek bilateral relations friendly.  
 Other considerations are vital for dealing with the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees living in Iran.  
 These Moderates believe that the government of Iran should put pressure on the USA to achieve the extradition of the Members of the organisation of the Members of the mujahdin-e) that are based in Iraq, as well as the total dismantling of this Group.  
 To change it, the government of Iran should give its support to the safeguarding of peace, stability and security in Iraq.  
 In total, the pragmatic would limit the deals between Iran and the USA, things focused on a programme which would mainly internal concerns of Iran.  
 The Conservative forces in Iran support most of this position.  
 Another position aspires to a more active role and cooperative of Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.  
 The supporters of this vision argue that Iran is in a good position to make that reconstruction is easier, due to its infrastructure well established of personal and institutional ties in Iraq.  
 Sooner or later, argue, the USA and the international Community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.  
 The Iranian cooperation should pay with the dismantling of the infrastructure of the war, perhaps linked to the commitment of Iran to increase its efforts to put an end to any of the terrorist activity, as well as of expelling of Iran to its Members.  
 What is most important, Iran should press for the USA, given the security of their cooperation and mutual element will guarantee us that Iran will not be the target of a military action of the USA in the future.  
 In total, the supporters of the cooperation call a negotiation open and explicit: the support of Iran to stability during the current phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government is that arises in Iraq, whatever their mark, instead of an improvement in the position of regional and international of Iran.  
 This vision is very popular among the Iranian reformists (both within and outside the government) and the kind of technocratic and commercial thinking more international.  
 Finally, the Iranians, the ability to establish relations of cooperation with the USA is a fantasy.  
 They believe that the USA has decided to undermine the security of Iran and harm their national interests.  
 From the point of view of the radicals, far less than the USA, is dictate far-reaching changes in the Iranian foreign policy.  
 And what was proposed by the Americans, argue, is to press for a change of regime in Iran.  
 The USA will initiatives against the acquisition of knowledge and nuclear energy on the part of Iran, and can even try to weaken the rule of Iranian military capacity.  
 These radical see the invasion of the USA in Iraq as the reflection of the desire of the United States surrounding Iran.  
 In response, believe that Iran should defend their interests in an active way, remain strategic alliances with Russia and other regional powers and using the influence of Iran in Iraq in order to prevent the emergence of a government in Baghdad pro-American and antiiraní.  
 The extremists of all factions support this view.  
 Overthrowing the regime of Saddam was the easy part of the Iraqi crisi.  
 Now comes the difficult: to consolidate peace and security, to win the war against terrorism and to convince the Muslim masses of which the USA does not intend to take and the ownership of its oil and reshape the Middle East to its image and similar.  
 In the meantime, it is likely to increase the opposition to the USA, expressed in bombazos suicide bombers and other forms of terrorism.  
 Iran is destined to continue playing a role, of primary importance, due to their political dynamism and its Muslim identity resonates with widely in the Muslim world.  
 What will happen in the implicancias of primary importance to Iran, and the USA is well advised in regard to seek ways of recognising this fact.  
 The American threats, or the speculation about another war, inflaman the flames of resentment and the frustration in Iran, strengthen the forces more radical.  
 If the USA wants to avoid this result, should consider limit the influence of their own radical, recognising that the American interests in and benefit with a greater cooperation with Iran.  
 The departure of Iraq  
 At last we have reached the point on which everyone in Iraq tode ostensibly wants the same thing: the departure from the country of the coalition forces.  
 The recent leak of a document from the British Ministry of defence on the withdrawal of the troops highlights this wish.  
 The only question is how satisfacerlo.  
 While the coalition forces continue there, it is likely that the violence increase.  
 But if we leave, also increase, but more quickly.  
 So, the real question is how to reach the point where Iraq with a police and army to those who can entrust the maintenance of law and order.  
 Should proceed much for even approach.  
 In spite of the value of the many Iraqis that they put the army or the police, should not be surprised that some may have reasons that are not so cigars.  
 In the North of Iraq are saldando old scores and has introduced a de facto ethnic segregation in areas like, which traditionally were different.  
 In other areas has been introduced by the forces of the law of Sharia law.  
 How, then, can create services to which Iraq uniformed can entrust the application of the law of efficient manner and impartial considerations, ethnic, religious or gender?  
 The answer is recruiting traditional, training and persuade the right 'values'.  
 But there is not enough time for that.  
 We need other methods.  
 In the absence of a system of values deeply rooted, Iraq needs to civil society organisations powers that the police and the army are accountable.  
 It could adopt different forms, but what is important is that it be inclusive at local level and which receive support from the structures of power distritales, regional and national when there have been informed of this.  
 If there is a scrutiny and the strengthening of local and national recognition of the value of that scrutiny, so it is likely that the majority of the Members of the forces uniformed to behave in a proper manner --y to be able to identify and punish more easily if we do not.  
 This might seem too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country similar to Iraq in many respects, there are groups that are working to achieve that goal.  
 The cooperation for peace and unity (cpau) provides a model of the way in which this can be done.  
 In Afghanistan, as well as in Iraq, the priority of the common people has been to achieve a reduction of violence.  
 The cpau worked in all the country over the last three years, to establish peace distrital level, supported by peace negotiations on the satellite towns.  
 The initiative is facing a culture in which violence is so strong that children learn arithmetic counting the number of Soviet soldiers dead.  
 Therefore, the committees looking for all sectors of the Community --incluyendo teachers, tribal leaders and religious, women, police, soldiers, judges and empresarios-- working together to devise ways to resolve violent conflicts.  
 Although the supervision has not been a formal part of the role of the regions up to now (it is envisaged that it will be in the future, the simple fact that the police, the army and the judiciary is part of these regions the practice in contact with the rest of the Community, offers retroalimentación and starts to create confidence.  
 Some of the results are clear.  
 In a workshop, the military Commander local attended a couple of hours by courtesy and ended remaining throughout the week.  
 The end apologised for its past violent and undertook to disarm their private army of 2,000 Members.  
 Now visit regularly the offices of the Committee.  
 In Iraq, projects such as the centre of humanitarian link in production are beginning to fulfil a function of monitoring the offer to the local population, diverse ethnic in it, the opportunity to present their complaints and receive support for resolving them.  
 But all too often, even when there is a fault of judicial, this does not apply to the cause of intimidation.  
 The us and British forces have already done much good work to strengthen civil society.  
 We cannot hear talk of the workshops to empower women or the organisation of successful elections of small scale throughout the country.  
 But to mobilise civil society is a huge challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, needs to be done quickly and on a massive scale.  
 The military force is still needed, but so too are the incentive to lay down their weapons, including the prospects of economic opportunities that are more profitable that crime and extortion.  
 Fortunately, create capacity for civil society is as cheap as important.  
 The centre of humanitarian link service to all production to an annual cost of just 75,000 dollars.  
 With 10 million dollars those centres could replicate 100 times --y sobraría enough.  
 The challenge is to engage with that approach, to strengthen and to give full support to the courageous people who faces the challenge to ask all the power.  
 Another way, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people to obtain the security which, after many years of suffering, needs with urgency.  
 Does democracy in the Nile?  
 The sorpresiva decision of the Egyptian President Mubarak of proposing a constitutional amendment that would enable us to hold presidential elections direct and competitive cannot be a giant step for democracy in Egypt and the Arab world.  
 In the West, used to pluralist democracy, they may prove difficult to understand the enormity of the change potential that it cannot mean in a country used the military government for more than 50 years.  
 Under the current system, the Egyptian citizens can only be presented the day of a presidential referendum every six years and speak in favour or against the single name appears on the ballot Paper.  
 This explains why someone as always always received more than 90% of the votes, although it has been through a participation indifferent.  
 The leaders of Syria and Iraq, has gone even better with this system, no doubt because it demanded that the names and directions of the voters would show the calce every vote.  
 Many have argued for a long time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not progress, so that Egypt is fully committed to the process.  
 Egypt could indeed embarking on the road to democratization without reforming the first of its Constitution --para reducing the powers faraónicos of its President and set limits to its period of government.  
 After all, after 24 years already takes as President.  
 Therefore, the announcement that wants to presidential elections competitive is an important first step.  
 The regime can assume that achieved using the process to their advantage, but perhaps the events are not so easy to monitor when people start to feel that has power.  
 The genius of democracy already set out of the bottle.  
 In any case, Egypt is not the only country in this troubled region that undertakes the path of democracy.  
 Turkey, from one side of the Middle East, and to the other, already going quite advanced.  
 This time the real impetus appears to come from the proximity and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and to a lesser extent Saudi Arabia.  
 The unprecedented demonstrations against the occupation in Lebanon after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq its Prime Minister, not to give signals to calm down.  
 Also the opposition groups Egyptians have carried out marches increasingly bold and other forms of civil disobedience in recent weeks.  
 The catalyst for their fury was the arrest of ill opposition leader Ayman Nour at the end of January.  
 The conduct of the government last revitalizó movement and "local" (it), which has been called for the purpose of the regime.  
 Suddenly, the popular conception of the Egyptians, taxpayers and fearful to act seems not to be certain.  
 It is forming an Alliance of local, regional and international forces against the tyranny of all the sides of Nile.  
 The recent wave of popular interest seems to have shaken the regime.  
 Scarcely a month ago, after desechaba the requirements of constitutional reforms declaring them necessary.  
 But anyone who has been the combination of elements which led to a change of opinion, we must welcome the initiative for the elections.  
 It is a first necessary step --pero insuficiente-- rediseñar stuck to the political system in Egypt.  
 The Egyptians since they are suspicious of the reforms in the style of the token of Tunisia, where the President of the country which President Ali, with a long time in power, created a caricature of constitutional amendment which seemed to open the doors to the elections, in order to create a competitive electoral farce with some "opponents' selected by it.  
 In previous presidential referendum, President Ali received normally 99% of the vote this time was the 96%.  
 Let us hope that always be taken more seriously electoral reform.  
 As a sign of honesty, has to sort out the immediate release of Ayman Nour and take steps to put an end to the State of emergency which robs since 24 years and that prevents on the facts that lead to hold presidential campaigns.  
 After must also support a deadline of not more than two consecutive periods of five years for any President.  
 The measures are also required and include the open and fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the State.  
 I have announced that I intend to dispute the forthcoming presidential elections as a way of opening the debate on these reforms are essential.  
 But like regresaría my life of citizen a time that is to guarantee free and open elections in the autumn.  
 If it is applied with seriousness, these measures will transform the legacy of unprecedented.  
 Along with the events in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine, can open a spring Arab freedom which had reached after long ago.  
 A historic choice in Egypt?  
 The Egyptians pass through the ballot box 7 September to elect a President of between ten candidates, including whom it has been for 24 years, elect.  
 Although a few doubt that the result will be the re-election of this latest, many are continuing passionately in the process.  
 Some 6 000 national observers have received training for those elections and hundreds of foreign Reporters are converging in the country this week.  
 Although all the details of formal of a real election campaign are present, important aspects of dealings are conspicuous by their absence.  
 Despite the promises made in the opposite direction, the playing field is far from being the same for everyone.  
 After continues to counting with active disproportionate: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly of electronic media are controlled by the State and 85%, approximately, print media.  
 A week before the elections, some opposition candidates have not yet been able to present an election advertising on television Egyptian.  
 All the Members of the Commission of the presidential elections have been named by the unprecedented and the new electoral rules have been wiped out to all the candidates independent.  
 Since the year 2000, the 8 000 judges of Egypt must monitor and certify the election results, pursuant to a resolution of the Court of justice.  
 It was an important step with a view to the holding of elections more just, then the professional association of the judiciary has continued to counting with quite independence, despite the attempts of the executive power of arrebatársela over half a century.  
 So that the regime has always had to resort to various manoeuvres to neutralise the membership of the judiciary.  
 One was that of extending the definition of "judiciary" to include thousands of employees loyal government have headings of graduates in law, but not experience today, it is not the real judges, because, if we are protesting boycotting its functions of supervision, the task will once more in the police of the infamous Ministry of the Interior.  
 Thus, in the past the membership of the judiciary used to say in addition, with results foreseeable.  
 In the parliamentary elections of 2000, while the governing Party of always received the 38%, approximately, of the popular vote in the districts overseen by the real judges, that percentage happened to be nothing less than 86% there where supervision was in charge of the cuasijueces.  
 This year it seems that is going to be very different.  
 In the spring of the judges held a national Assembly and decided that, unless the regime were given full independence and the exclusive supervision of the process of voting, not supervisarían the forthcoming presidential elections (or parliamentarians).  
 On 2 September presented its final requirements: to allow civil society groups look at the process of voting, not with the interference in the definition of the legitimate, with a view to the elections and access to the permanent presence of a judge legitimate in front of each of the ballot box until it has been counted, certified and communicated its content.  
 Until now, it is likely that the situation is a blind alley, because the chairman of the electoral Commission has stated publicly in the Egyptian television that rejects the supervision of the electoral process on the part of all the citizens.  
 Another novelty interesting on the eve of the elections is a enconado public debate over whether to vote or to boycott the presidential elections.  
 Various opposition parties have asked to its Member States which do not participate: to protest against an electoral rules favouring enormously to restrictive.  
 On the other hand, the Muslim brotherhood, seen the Group of opposition stronger of Egypt, are urging its supporters to go to vote and to do so in good conscience, but not to give support to any despotic corrupt governing "and".  
 This is a clear repudiation of constructive, though, after the single governing on 24 years.  
 Thirty and four organisations of civil society are preparing to thousands of young Egyptians to observe the elections, despite repeated objections NGOs.  
 These groups argue that, if the regime does not propose to rig the election results, the presence of observers to the national foreign electoral process should not be a problem.  
 The response of the regime is that any external supervision is a violation of the Egyptian sovereignty and the national observers are an affront to the integrity of the judges.  
 That argument was quickly disabled when the membership of the judiciary announced that endorsed the presence of observers from the civil society.  
 It is that the regime of always to be afraid of the internal and external requirements on the increase for which hold free and fair elections, or that it is, quite simply, unable to refine the Party of its natural tendency to fraud, the current signals are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.  
 In the meantime, the Egyptians are experiencing for the first time the emotion of challenging the tyranny and enjoy a newly discovered space for freedom.  
 The envy of Europe towards the dollar  
 The coins can become the focus not only of commercial transactions, but of diplomatic disputes and policies.  
 As it happens, the commercial transactions are made more difficult and are subject to a greater uncertainty.  
 The politicisation of the money for the depression of war years it was economically devastating.  
 But there have been cases of more recent perverted struggles of coins.  
 In the years of the international monetary Union became the focus of a political guerrilla warfare.  
 Each side was theories and explanations rather different approaches of what was happening.  
 The Europeans (in particular, the French) complained that the general Charles de Gaulle called the "exorbitant privilege 'of the us dollar.  
 The general and its gurú, Jacques Delors, argued that the USA was the status of the dollar as the main reserve currency, caused by the regime of fixed exchange rate of fixed for having deficits and to pay their military adventures abroad (in that time, Vietnam).  
 France had named in a monetary reform which ended with the special role of the dollar and try to revive the gold, for then very discredited.  
 The Europeans began a long debate about the advantages of the achievement of monetary Union, which would allow them to look to the dollar face to face.  
 But, from the point of view of the United States, the international role of dollar was a trap.  
 Other countries could change their exchange rates and it gave greater competitiveness of its exports.  
 The us government was powerless in the face of a devalued, which alimentaba the belief that the rest of the world was the dollar to attack the manufacturing base of the USA.  
 The administration and came to the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was the unilateralism of monetary policy: a monetary expansion so radical that other countries were forced to adjust their exchange rates.  
 These battles, long forgotten, have gone from soon very topical.  
 The world is no longer a system of fixed exchange rate, but the dollar is still the main reserve currency, an old boys ’ of major 1980s.  
 For the Americans, the role of the dollar reserve is a potential threat, as for the rest of the world is another example of the neoimperialista hegemonic ambition of the USA.  
 In this decade, China has taken place, in the 1960s, maintaining its exchange rate under to stimulate the growth of its exports.  
 Accordingly, it is the target of the complaints from the USA by unfair competition and its efforts to make an adjustment of the exchange rate which does that the Americans will buy toys, equipment and clothing manufacturing of China.  
 The manufacturers of the USA have decided that the internal clothes China constitutes a threat to the American way of life.  
 In the meantime, the Europeans (particularly the French) complain about the greater liberalization of the USA and, once again, is out of the argument of maintaining that the rest of the world is paying the wars of the USA.  
 Some Europeans suggest that the Central banks and should be a major part of its reserves in euros, what is an ECHO of the failed attempt to force to that of the USA vendiera dollars and received gold.  
 The 60 have ended up in a fall apart from "and" system in an important financial turbulence, accompanied by an increase in inflationary prices of basic products.  
 All were injured, and the role of the USA in world Affairs received a major shock.  
 If we were to happen now, a collapse is likely to have a similar effect.  
 The current system of type 1980s is more solid and the costs of the adjustments are being distributed in a different way.  
 The majority of the Americans do not suffer too by the sharp fall in the dollar, since the sellers of goods foreigners have to adjust its prices to the market of the USA.  
 The Asian economies are growing vigorously and their Central banks are piling up headings of debt of the USA.  
 It is possible to continue with this policy, since the alternative would be a sudden setback of the competividad of its political exporters in the us market.  
 It gives us more time to confront a current account deficit which, in the long term, is untenable.  
 The regions of the world economically dynamic, North America and Asia, are then linked by a Pact that will ensure the continuity of the Central role of the us dollar.  
 The Americans will continue to gather debt, since we want to Asia.  
 Break the Pact would go against the interests of both parties.  
 It is not American unilateralism, since it means to deal with this.  
 But for the Europeans, who are excluded from the Pact, it was regarded as a unilateralism monetary and economic.  
 In the meantime, the rise of the euro against the dollar creates major hardships for exporters of European manufacturing.  
 However, Europe cannot do much to relieve this situation.  
 In fact, it will be the main impaired struggles of the new currency.  
 The answers that have been raised in the 60 (resurrect the gold, or the invention of a common European currency) no longer seem to be very useful.  
 Having a single currency has not provided a substantial protection.  
 The old version of the European response, that the sicólogos llamarían "envy the dollar ', will only grow.  
 There will be named the European Central Bank to extend its currency, as if we were to follow the dollar outside the answer to all the problems that affect industrial, structural and population in Europe.  
 But a period of reflection we must remember that the probelmas Europe cannot be solved through the manipulation of monetary Union.  
 We must see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privilege of the USA as what we are: a way to counteract the fundamental lack of power in Europe.  
 So the envy of the dollar arrived to stay, and will be even more to measure that the value of the tickets Greens go falling, considerable adverse effects on the people that the print and uses.  
 An account of policy  
 The Americans, as the citizens of many other countries of the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some civil servants.  
 Few surprises us (although to some of the disappointing) to be given a position of federal judge or diplomatic of high level to a candidate event evidence of loyalty on principles which are important for the economy of the President or the Prime Minister.  
 But almost everyone agrees that science is another thing, and in this, the United States are becoming a cautionary example for the rest of the world.  
 The scientific appointments should be based on objective criteria of training, capacity and performance.  
 Obviously, it is legitimate to question to a future Secretary of human health and services (of) on its position in regard to abortion.  
 But to submit evidence of loyalty policy to those who have been appointed to participate in scientific advisory committees is totally out of place.  
 In the same way, the membresía in the bodies that carry out of the review of the scientific proposals of their peers (process that is fundamental for the advance of scientific) certainly should be free of barriers which do not relate to the professional qualifications.  
 Unfortunately, the scientists in the EU are finding it increasingly with barriers of that kind.  
 Last autumn, the magazine, published several articles relating to this subject.  
 One narraba the replacement of Members of the consultative Committee of the national centre for the environmental health, which forms part of the centres for the prevention and control of diseases (Committee but in English), without consulting the director of the centre.  
 Other similar cases took place in the consultative Committee on poisoning by lead and its prevention, the consultative Committee on research in the protection of human and the consultative Committee on genetic tests.  
 The current account of ideology, which are or are reconstituyen with new Members of the advisory committees and submit to the candidates to evidence of loyalty is nothing new to some observers.  
 Officials from the of a realistic enough to say that it is "common".  
 Well, it is not common practice in the United States, or at least not used to be.  
 In any case, what is truly worrying is that the Bush administration to examine the candidates to see if they are compatible with its' values'.  
 What more alarming is the depth that have reached the findings on ideology, which are invading areas that were immune to this kind of manipulation.  
 In effect, perhaps the most revealing of the increased account policy was the exchange of personnel from the studies of the national Institute for safety and health at work, which evaluates the grants to study the injuries in the place of work.  
 It may be that the advisory committees have been vulnerable in the past to occasional exercises of this type.  
 After all, they are the ones who recommend lineamientos that politicians cannot or do not take into account.  
 But, the sections of study?  
 In October 2002, the published an editorial signed by by David and a Group of colleagues.  
 Several were directly civil servants ladies who had participated in some of the regions in question, and offered a prospect of valuable on the issue, based on their personal experiences.  
 The Article in itself was interesting, but what happened next what was still further.  
 Triggered a spate of letters of scientific relataban similar experiences.  
 A candidate to be part of the coordinating Committee of the investigations on the distrofia belonging to the national institutes, was that a Member of staff of the White House the interrogó.  
 Following the reply to several questions about their opinions with regard to the various policies of the Bush administration, none of them linked with the work of the Committee, I asked if we endorsed the policy of President on embryonic stem cells.  
 In another letter, a distinguished Professor of psychiatry and psychology narró who had received a call from the White House about his nomination to participate in the national Council about abuse of drugs.  
 The person who telephoned the reported that had to be investigated for "to determine whether there is any points of view that might prove embarrassing for the President '.  
 According to Professor, the official of the White House I made several questions and took the bill.  
 One example: "takes you two of three; the President was opposed to the Needle exchanges (for the intravenous drug users) on moral grounds, regardless of the outcome.  
 Next, the exchange gave a draft more sickening.  
 The official I asked the nominated if we had voted for Bush, and to hear that, asked: 'why do you not supported President? "  
 That happens in dictatorships, not in the world.  
 The aim of a consultative Committee of scientific advice is given balanced and carefully balanced for the process of political decisions.  
 There is nothing to be gained from - and a great pierde-cuando goes ahead the result of political wishes.  
 That is why it is that the decisions on what research projects will always support have been taken on the basis of studies on the part of couples, not political.  
 In fact, the staff regulations applicable to this - the law requires of committees consultivos-exige specifically that the committees are balanced and that "are not unduly influenced by the authority which the appointed".  
 The Secretary of human health and of the EU, Tommy Thompson, and the office of staff of the White House should give an example to the rest of the world.  
 What we can do very easily: complying with the law.  
 A killing in Moscow.  
 It is time to put an end to the illusion that the dictatorship of the right of "Putin did that Russia post-comunista were less anarchic.  
 The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and most courageous journalists of Russia, a woman who has dared to expose the brutal killings committed by Russian troops in Chechnya, is the final proof that the President Putin did not do more to offer a dictatorship and the current common, with the usual disregard for the law.  
 It is timely that the world, particularly in Europe, to take into account this acceptance.  
 The Ministry of foreign Affairs of Germany is currently working on a policy on the Russian relations / German that will be enlightened indifference in the face of the illegality of Putin in the national interest of the most powerful Member of the European Union.  
 But the indifference becomes appeasement when encourages Putin to implement its form anarchic in the international arena, and in its current campaign to stifle the economy of Georgia.  
 The murder of Politkovskaya frightful created a feeling of déjà vu: as at the height of the KGB, people are simply goes in Russia.  
 The murder of Politkovskaya is the third death with ribetes politicians in three weeks.  
 Ziganshin, major engineering of of Russia, was murdered with a gun fire in Irkutsk on 30 September.  
 Andrei for, the Vice-Governor of the Central Bank of Russia that lideraba a campaign against the financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.  
 The fact that the measures of Russia, the general Yuri chaika, made over the investigation into the murder of Politkovskaya, as it did with the murder of the, generates expectations, as it would be a very high level of participation in any real democracy.  
 In fact, the participation of the highest level of government of Russia is almost a guarantee that will never be found to the murderers.  
 The murder of Politkovskaya is a particularly grim omen if one takes into account that was a strong criticism of the President of Russia.  
 In its articles to one of the few independent newspapers that remain in Moscow, novaya novaïa, and on its books "Putin 's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "dirty war: to Russian report in Chechnya" (a dirty war: a Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote about the dissipation of the freedoms that is the identification of the Presidency of Mr Putin.  
 As is shown by the exile of the media berezovsky exiled former employers and the gusinky, and the use of banking tanker Mikhail Khodorkovsky, three fates await the enemies of Putin: the exile, the prison or the grave.  
 I am not accusing the government of Putin murder to wage of Politkovskaya.  
 After all, as a journalist from research enfureció to many people in addition of Putin, between the meeting, no less, that the current Prime Minister, Minister,, to whom she accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.  
 But even if the partners of Vladimir Putin had nothing to do with the murder of Politkovskaya in the lift his department in the centre of Moscow, the President 's disregard for the law gave rise to the climate in which perpetrates manslaughter.  
 As the murder of Archbishop of Canterbury cathedral in its many centuries ago, the crime was committed in the clear conviction that would be glad if the King.  
 In the face of what Politkovskaya represented in the responsibility of a democratic press to question the influence and its políticas-, the government should have ensured that nothing wrong I passed.  
 The Russia of Putin already lost 12 that journalists were murdered in the last six years.  
 None of these crimes has been resolved, which would not be the case if the dictatorship of the right of "Putin out something more than a public relations strategy.  
 The period of six years since that Vladimir Putin, has been arrived at a time of signals deeply opposed.  
 On the one hand, the world sees a leader of the young and educated which promised to modernise in Russia, particularly in terms of align its practices judicial and law enforcement with international standards.  
 On the other hand, the President noted in silence as its former colleagues in the security service not Russia (the former KGB) does not offer any security to the murdered and launch a series of significant causes of espionage against journalists, scientists and environmental activists.  
 Among these 'neo spies "are the journalist Grigori Pasko, the expert in control of arms Igor Sutyagin, the diplomatic moiseyev", the "physical, and others.  
 The civilising influence allegedly being a democratic partner in the chair a G8 Summit in St Petersburg, for example - seems to have disappeared in the intrigued by the influence of Putin.  
 Once again, the exposure to Western values created other city; Russia presents a Potemkin facade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the backdrop of cardboard governing the same beasts arbitrary.  
 The danger to the world is that the anarchy of Putin is exporting.  
 In all the outside close to Russia, is arraigando a form of diplomacy criminalizada.  
 Let us look at the attempt to manipulate fraudulently Putin, the previous presidential elections in Ukraine and the criminal charges intermittent submitted against the leader of the opposition false accusations.  
 Let us look at the separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia which only exists thanks to the support of the Kremlin.  
 Let us look at the way in which the Kremlin seeks to blackmail their neighbours threatening to interrupt their supply of energy.  
 All police knows that when we ignore the criminal behaviour, the criminals become more appeal.  
 It is time for the world to recognise Vladimir Putin for what it is: a man who is retrotrayendo to Russia in the shadows.  
 So that the world today should consider the former maintain in Latin, does in silence implies consentimiento- and wonder whether it is wise to indulge in silence the construction of a superpower which makes Putin energy without law.  
 The gaseoducto towards the Russian empire  
 Gerhard Schroeder, who even less than a month ago, it was Chancellor of Germany, accepted to be President of the enterprise that is building a gaseoducto from Russia, across the Baltic sea even Germany, and from there to Western Europe.  
 In many countries, however, is the acusaría the crime of conflict of interests.  
 Its apparent lack of ethics is growing by the fact that at this very moment Russia is threatening to interrupt the gas supplies to Ukraine if that country does not yield to the demands of Europe of the giant of the property of the Kremlin, gas prices.  
 The remit of strategic Russia is obvious: to interrupt the gas supplies to Ukraine also means interrupt a large part of the gas in Europe, because some of its larger pipelines pass by Ukraine.  
 The avoid Ukraine, Poland, and of course, the Baltic States, the new gaseoducto promised to give greater influence the influence in its eagerness to reposition themselves.  
 The President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of the former KGB soon they will not have to worry about Western Europe when they are deciding what strong pressure to the post-Communist for Russia.  
 Does Europe really should grant Putin this new arms imperial?  
 Or worse, could Russia to use this weapon against the European Union which is committed to the energy?  
 The fact that a former German Chancellor is going to address the company that can be given to Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is testimony to the dangerous complacency of Europe with regard to the ambitions neoimperialistas of Putin.  
 Certainly, the Russian media are unaware of the increased dependence of Europe on Russian energy.  
 In effect, with her: after apprenticeships give rise to integrate and increase our business down of gas, write to the Russian editorialistas, Europe keep silent about human rights.  
 Putin expresses this stance on a more oblicua with its commitment to carry out what the calling of an independent policy ".  
 What do you mean by that is that Russia has to be "independent" of the moral concerns and human rights of the Western democracies.  
 Perhaps some of the leaders of Europe really believe that maintaining the cosy prosperity of the Union justifies keep quiet in the field of human rights and other issues which disturb the Kremlin.  
 Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, about issues' commercial 'as the expropriation of expropriation, but if the if you put a price to our values or criticisms to the faults committed by Russia in Chechnya, for example, the bloody sangre- Europeans seem to be prepared to remain silent the mouths so as not to face the possibility that there is an increase in the price of energy resources, or even a blocking and that Ukraine is now faces.  
 To measure that Putin reordena its Court, subordinando to the Duma to their will, the expectations of the European Union of a major Europeanisation of Russia should be abandoned.  
 The Russia which Putin is building has mutated of expectations post-Soviet freedom to a bastion of gas and oil for its new military control structures.  
 In effect, the chief executive of the Group of the gaseoducto that, chairing, is a friend of much time of Putin.  
 The wall street Journal reported at the beginning of this year that the director, who conducted the Russian branch of the Bank, an agent of the, the secret police of East Germany, and to Putin came to light at the end of the 1980 when the Russian President was in East Germany as spy of the KGB.  
 The fact that the Russians tolerate a government of former Members of the KGB, for whom the lack of sympathy and intolerance in dissent is the norm, reflecting its exhaustion of the excitement of the last twenty years.  
 Now the Kremlin seems to believe that what is good for the Russians and is good for the independent countries also: the small and the weak countries do not have sympathy once Russia to obtain the tools for intimidating, keep them and amenazarlos with the possibility of an energy blockade.  
 As a former head of State of the newly independent Lithuania, frequently had to endure those threats.  
 The European Union has signed numerous agreements with Russia, including one of "common" space for freedom and justice.  
 The Kremlin is very good to pretend that idealism.  
 Their control over Eastern Europe always imposed on the basis of 'control of friendship ", and the Soviet invasions in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968 were missions" fraternal ".  
 But we need to see how abuse Putin that gap "common": the brutal treatment to the Chechens, the employer in prison in prison, the harassment of the NGOs' s, false accusations against the colideresa of the Orange revolution of the past year, false accusations, on the part of Russian military prosecutors.  
 If the Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, they must recognise that these values are not shared by the officials have the influence of Putin.  
 The same is happening as regards Russia as an ally in the fight against terrorism.  
 What is it conceivable that the earth 'red terror ", with countless crimes without the punishment of the Soviet era, and which takes traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, will provide a reliable support to stop the threats to the world of Iran and North Korea?  
 It seems likely that the minds of the cold simply will exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase its destructive power and influence.  
 For decades, my region of Europe was left to the mercy of Europe.  
 Therefore, I cannot stay silent while Europe is blindly towards a new appeasement.  
 We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, we have learned from our legacy that behind every act diplomatic Russia hide an imperial.  
 The Western Europeans, who have waged this legacy, should listen to our warnings.  
 The dependence of Russia, even if its to present is the so-called "charismatic" will schroeder- only lead to the abyss.  
 The bullets and the votes of Iraq  
 When the war in Iraq started in 2003, the Bush administration was very ambitious plans: as in Germany and Japan after 1945, provide an occupation long and peaceful, during which the increased production of oil provides an ever greater prosperity to measure that construyeran a to a democratic structures.  
 On the basis of a Liberal, including posmoderna, with everything and the guarantee of a 25% of the curules from Parliament to the women.  
 In Iraq today there is no peace or prosperity.  
 The Constitution that will be put to the vote on 15 October include that of the 25% rule, but it is far from being the Liberal.  
 The key provision (Article 2) that no law can counter "rules unquestionable Islam" breaches the basic principle of the sovereignty of parliamentarians and will ensure that the legislation to meet with the international standards.  
 For example, the age of sexual consent cannot be set by the nine years, because Mohammed itself had a wife nine years.  
 It follows that the children of nine years are also adult according to the law of criminal and are subject to the maximum sentence by, say, turn to another religion.  
 More broadly, the Shiites can use that disposal to put their ayatolas above the elected Parliament, as in Iran, because they are only entitled to determine the "rules" of Islam.  
 To foreigners and the few Iraqis were concerned primarily with this provision, but the popular Islamic opposition of the Sunni to the Constitution is directed at other provisions: the exclusion of "Party Ba'athist ath sadamista" of political life and the government and the federalists' s autonomy to the provisions that were provinces Iraqis and allow them to be combined to shape regional governments.  
 The rule of social exclusion is a matter for the military personnel from the Sunni --incluyendo to thousands of employers, profesionistas, including artistas-- because, with a few exceptions, all were Members of the Ba'athist ath.  
 In theory, the constitutional ban could be interpreted as applicable only to the future.  
 But in practice, now we are applying the administrative rules for excluding the so-called Members' high level 'of the Ba'athist ath of any kind of employment governmental and thousands have been affected.  
 The Sunni perhaps they would accept the federalist, if we were to apply only to the Kurds.  
 We know that the alternative is not a return to the centralism, but the secession of the three Kurdish provinces of majority, and to shape and as an independent Kurdistan, with its own finance, army (the army () and production of oil around at --que has the second place in stocks of Iraq.  
 The Sunni reject the same federalism for the Shiites because the said brothers Arabs who have always accepted the Sunni government in the past and what they will accept - but which have their own government.  
 That is what the new Constitution would allow us, because the provinces of Shiite majority in the South --donde is the major part of the oil reserves of iraq-- could shape their own regional government.  
 The usual style of the Middle East, the leaders Sunni disappointed and unhappy with the Constitution are now threatening to violence.  
 But the federalism is not the reason why the Sunni Islam which preach the supremacy launch its fatal attacks.  
 Its opposition is more fundamental: they do not accept the principle of democratic government of the majority.  
 Instead it seek to restore the government of the minority Sunni Muslims.  
 For the Islamists, of any form of the Shiites deserve the death, by apóstatas.  
 A leader, Shia, Iraq, also strongly opposes the federalism.  
 Its supporters are the Shiites, illiterate in its majority, poorer and violent the slums there in Baghdad and other places whose "militia mahdi" fought against the American troops in 2004, even though these were to protect the Shiites of the size of the Sunni.  
 As priest very young which derives its authority of his father died --un Khamenei populista--los ayatolas alive of Iraq, who are an insult to their ignorance and violence, are opposed to present.  
 Iraq cannot compete in any way with them in regard to religious authority, which adopts a stance against the nationalist Arabic they often, remembering that the high priest Shia, Khamenei and, it is persa, Arabic.  
 Similarly, I remember its following that in the Council, who are leading the justice for the Islamic revolution in Iraq and its militia "the" were exiled subsidised in Iran --y many of them have fought on the side of Iran in the long and painful war irán-iraq-- so that the Americans' the came out of return ".  
 Iraq is opposed to federalism because a regional government Shiite obedecería its enemies, and the Council and the justice and, he argues, would fall under the influence of Iran.  
 To highlight its message, sent to present their men to attack the militia militia, with success in Baghdad, where the mahdi are numerous, but without it in Najaf, where hates at present by the destruction caused by the last year --hasta that the Americans massacred in their men.  
 Since it was wrong to deal with Iraq as villain; the simple arithmetic policy are now saying that it will probably be the Central figure to decide the result of the vote that will take place in October on the Constitution.  
 To reject it and make new elections to a constituent Assembly, the opponents need a majority of two thirds in at least three provinces.  
 It is likely that the Sunni only earn in two parts, but if you present command to its supporters of the slums there of successfully to vote "no" along with the Sunni aspects, it could do that make in the capital of the opponents of the Constitution, which would ensure its defeat.  
 As hampón political, Iraq is, of course, willing to sell.  
 Last year was sought by murder.  
 Now wants money, recognition as a statesman and humiliation, at least, of constructive and justice and to the Council.  
 Could accept such proposals and once the negotiations have already begun.  
 But some of the Shiites to those who attack with words and bullets have thousands of supporters of armed and think that only I should offer bullets.  
 The fall of the secret police  
 As was able to monitor the Prime Minister of Hungary, discovered, when a confession set of his government was lying was urging disturbances, openness in the government is not something which will easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.  
 Like Hungary, Romania post-comunista has fought for increasing transparency and honesty in what was an ever more closed societies in the world.  
 While we fought, confidentiality continuing gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.  
 However, there has been a real progress towards openness, recognised by the European Union when you gave the Green light to Romania to join the EU at the beginning of 2007.  
 In addition to achieve what the EU today takes a "functioning market economy", has been the political and legal changes, which I myself monitored as Minister of justice, ranging from a greater transparency and control of the funding of political parties, even a shock of the judiciary.  
 The judicial reforms, in turn, are helping to eradicate corruption.  
 Was issued recusaciones against the cabinet Ministers and Ministers in functions, Members of Parliament, judges, fiscal, lawyers, police and customs officers, and other civil servants, as well as managers of private companies.  
 It also introduced new forms of standardised for declarations of assets and financial interests on the part of anyone who has an official position in the government, Parliament, the public administration and established and the judicial system.  
 The new statements are the more detailed in Europe and, more importantly, were made public.  
 The progress of Romania is confirmed by a report put forward at the beginning of this month, which shows that citizens' access to information from the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent to that of the established democracies.  
 In fact, the report, transparency and silence, carried out by the initiative pro-justicia of the open society (available in www.justiceinitiative.org) indicates that, in some way, the older democracies have something to learn from the new government in Romania: certain agencies were more sensitive to the requests of information to the citizens of other agencies comparable in France and Spain.  
 Specifically, in Romania is respond to 60% of the requests presented, compared with the 31% in France and 24% in Spain.  
 Other countries have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, where it was adopted laws of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after that in Romania.  
 However, to get access to sensitive information in democracies in transition is not always easy, and I can give account of it by my previous job as a lawyer of human rights for the Committee to Romania.  
 Many times we had to resort to the Court to force a disclosure of information, appealing to the freedom of information act of extension of Romania.  
 For example, even when ganábamos a case which had to do with access to the registers of telephone tapping authorised by the Attorney-General, the Attorney-General simply unaware of the judicial order.  
 Presentábamos a civil action against the public Prosecutor and the judge imposed a fine by every day that information was withheld.  
 But just as we trap the attention of the media was that the data, which were made public detallaban the number of telephone tapping authorised in the last 10 years, against whom and how much time.  
 With its publication, Romania started to get away from its past dominated by the securitate.  
 Today, within the government, I am aware that the sharing of information to the public is often difficult.  
 But when it is necessary to implement painful reforms, there is no alternative.  
 We could not have implemented the economic and political reforms which we valieron membership as a Member of the EU if we had not submitted our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in the taking of decisions that will inevitably goes hand in hand with this openness.  
 What is more, it has become a sine qua non of democratic government in the world as a whole.  
 When the United States adopted its freedom of information act in 1996, we accepted the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.  
 Today there are countries that have almost with this type of legislation.  
 In Romania, who fought for a law of freedom of information made full use of it.  
 As part of the study of initiative pro-justicia, to those who requested information from the government of Romania are offered voluntarily the type of information which would have been unthinkable report just a few years ago.  
 The Ministry of defence, by Romanian case, although the number of staff of the armed forces and in 2003, as well as the causes of death (between them and suicides, two shootings and two deaths in combating in Afghanistan).  
 In the same way, I asked him to the Court to report on the number of judges disciplined since the beginning of 2000, including the arguments for any penalties applied.  
 The Court has altered the request to the board of governors of the judiciary, which offered a full response: a list of four pages of all the judges punished, with details of the reasons and the sanctions.  
 This type of information is therefore a product as an engine of the ongoing reform.  
 It was not always easy for those who are in the government, and yet there is a reluctance criticism concerning sensitive documents.  
 But, in the former Communist bloc, the benefits of which involved the transparency have been positive.  
 At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secret continues to be a threat to the core values of the democratic governance, and that only the constant vigilance, both in established democracies as in the young, can prevent that are transferred their limits.  
 To save the life of the trees  
 Nobody can spend a day without using a product which comes from a forest.  
 To a greater extent than the majority of the people is taken account of, the Paper on which wrote, the water that comes from our taps, the drugs that we sanan, wood that is built our houses and furniture, all of them originating in forests.  
 The forests, the fresh air that we breathe and the natural habitats of endangered species.  
 We also provide opportunities for recreational purposes, more and more important in our complex world.  
 Approximately 1.5 billion of poor people living in rural areas of the world are dependent on forests for basic needs as food and firewood.  
 However, deforestation is continuing.  
 Every year we lose 14,6 millions of hectares (145 000 square kms.) of forests, an area of almost four times the size of Switzerland.  
 The opinion forestry stressed when, for the bad regulation and application of the laws on the part of the governments, and the markets that premian illegal logging are conspiring to end the forests more valuable and threatened in the world.  
 Once that forests starts to go, for what is produced a set of environmental, social and economic problems that affect us all in some way.  
 The island of disappearance, in Indonesia, is a good example.  
 The companies producing Paper pulp and are carrying out a rampant destruction of forests and illegal containing the rich diversity of plants in the world.  
 It is likely that in the road disappear plants still to discover, as well as endangered species as the rhino and the elephant disappearance, and the orangután.  
 As the forests of Sumatra, whole communities of people find themselves with a little to live and without a decent way of earning a living.  
 Moreover, the distortion of the global markets caused by the trade in products produced a cheap and illegally produced disadvantages for the firms that demonstrate social responsibility.  
 The developing countries are losing 15 billion dollars a year of tax revenue, due to the illegal logging.  
 To make matters worse, the demand for wood for reconstruction following the tsunami last year is stepping up the already unsustainable demand that exist about the forests in Sumatra.  
 Similar threats to the forests are evident in the Amazon basin and in the Congo.  
 The recent ecosystem assessment for the Millennium (eem) of the crisis shows that the forests of these and other regions of critical importance in frank decline due to bad management, and that will continue to be disappearing unless steps are taken seriously.  
 The information published without due regard for the government of Brazil indicates that the deforestation of the forests irreplaceable the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion to agricultural land, became the 2.6 million hectares (close to 26, 000 square kms.) last year, taking the total area deforestada Amazonas a 17%.  
 But the battle against deforestation is not lost.  
 Various organisations, ambientalistas and enterprises concerned the State of the forests in the world are joined forces to reverse the reforestation and to improve the management of forests.  
 For example, the worldwide Fund for nature (the) and the world Bank have helped the government of Brazil to start an initiative which created over 17 million hectares (179.000 square kms.) new forest areas protected, such as national parks.  
 The Alliance between the WWF and the world Bank also caused to the associated with this initiative to create a trust Fund to administer in perpetuity these areas to be protected.  
 Similarly, a Summit meeting between the governments of the countries of the European Union, as a result of the Congo did an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible for managing the forests.  
 At the same time, it was an initiative of USD 53 million from the department of State of the United States to promote the conservation of forests in the Congo.  
 Since the governing met for the first time in 1999, 3.5 million hectares (more 33.700 square kms.) new protected areas have been created in the Congo basin.  
 Nevertheless, given the effects of the Asian tsunami of December, the weight of the evidence provided by the eem and statistics on deforestation in regions of forest of key importance, our efforts must continue.  
 The world Bank and the recently agreed to unite in an effort to help to reduce the rate of deforestation representation in a 10% by the year 2010, and work with the other institutions of the public and private sectors for the achievement of ambitious objectives of conservation forestry.  
 The studies of the proves that if the forests of the world is divided on a combination of applications and types (which includes areas protected forests business handled responsibly and landscapes boscosos recovered) can respond to the needs of world of forest products, at the same time preserving jobs and social and environmental resources for the foreseeable future.  
 The leaders of businesses, the governments and the organisations of civil society must play its role to make reality this vision.  
 What are the Saudi fanatics?  
 The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have made many not just the raison d 'être of the prospects for survival of the House of the governing sauds, but I wonder if the UK is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.  
 In some way, it seems that the Saudi society has produced a torrent of frequency population which is based on the religious orthodoxy extreme.  
 The fact that, of the 19 kidnappers of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States were mounts she crystallized a vision of long dates which considers the UK as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance.  
 In some aspects, this perception is accurate, but it cannot be applied to the general public Arabia.  
 On the contrary, it would be a serious mistake to believe that the fanatical Islamic fundamentalism defined by the Saudi attitudes towards religion.  
 Between 2001 and 2003, formed part of a team that conducted a comprehensive study of the values in Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt and Jordan.  
 Our results offer a remarkably nuanced image of the Saudi attitudes.  
 In comparison with those polled in other countries of the Middle East, the Saudi people were in general but religious, and their attitudes towards democracy and the forced marriages also indicate a moderate current underlying.  
 It is clear that in the four countries religion is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of the respondents saying to believe in God, in life after the death, and heaven and hell.  
 But the Saudi people seem to be less religious that its partners of Muslim faith.  
 The 1960s and two per cent of the Saudi people are described as religious, in comparison with the 82% of the Iranians, 85% of the Jordanians and 98% of the Egyptians.  
 The Americans also appears to be much more religious that the Saudi people, with a 81% of them describiéndose as such.  
 Part of this variation can explain the differences between Nations in regard to what it means to be religious.  
 For example, the Americans can define the way different religions of the inhabitants of the Middle East, with perhaps a minor adhesion to the religious beliefs that normal in Islamic countries.  
 It could also explain in part of the differences between the countries.  
 But the gap between what the Saudi defined as religions, on the one hand, and the definition of the Iranians, Jordanian and Egyptians, on the other, is so great that it calls into question the prevailing perception that Saudi Arabia is a highly religious society and Conservative.  
 In fact, the actions speak more than the words: only 28% of the Saudi people said to participate in the services religious per week, in comparison with the 27% of the Iranians, 44% of the Jordanians, 42% of the Egyptians and 45% of the Americans.  
 These results, if we are moving in the opposite direction to the popular perceptions about the culture of Arabia, are less surprising that appear.  
 Since the sociologists of religion have argued that, in a monolithic religious or when the religious institutions are closely linked to the State, declining religions of the general public.  
 It makes sense to think that when the government authorities make compulsory strict codes of conduct, people tend to rebel and to get away from the religious institutions officially approved.  
 Therefore, it is not surprising that the Egyptians and Jordanians, who live in countries where the State not forced to exercise the merciless, are more that the Iranian religious or Saudi people, who must be opposed to a policy of local 'virtuous' backed by the State.  
 Even on the subject of marriage many mounts expressed views surprisingly Liberals.  
 The surveyed was divided today by equal parties in the question about the forced marriages, with about half of supporting the idea of the marriage must be based on the willingness of the parents, while 48% preferred to the love as the basis of marriage.  
 Given the well-established segregation by gender and the domination of the parents, this result seems to reveal a strong desire for greater freedom of choice of the individual in what has traditionally been a decision which takes the family.  
 Finally, the Saudi people turn out to be keen supporters of democracy, contravening back the image of popular conservatism Arabia.  
 The Saudi people polled, 58% considered to democracy as the best way of government, a 23% was not agree, and were not expressed an opinion.  
 The overwhelming support for democracy in a country which has a history secular and nationalist seems somewhat contrary to what might intuir.  
 In fact, the support for democracy was correspond with a series of other attitudes with which we find in Saudi Arabia.  
 The supporters of democracy tend to be less religious, secular, more tolerant towards the rest, more critical of the performance of the public sector and to be more concerned about the invasion of cultural organizations.  
 Beyond the study, history has shown that the Liberal ideas become more popular monarch as a despotic rule the village in Alliance with a "," religious.  
 At the end of the nineteenth century arose in Syria in Turkey a strong common Liberal, in response to the sultán of religious despotism.  
 At the same time, turned up in Iran a secular movement and anticlerical in favour of constitutional politics, a reaction to the Alliance between the absolutist and the religious and institucionalidad.  
 In view of the similarities between these historical background and the actual conditions in Saudi Arabia, we should not rule out the possibility of a reform.  
 Now the data of the studies also suggest that it would not be surprising to see the Saudi people demanding a policy more transparent and a religion less intrusive.  
 The European museum  
 At the end of the nineteenth century, Europe has basically saw this as a source of inspiration for their artists or a focus of imperial ambition.  
 The Asian, for its part, saw to Europe as a model of modernity, as in Japan meiji, or a barometer of decline, as in China.  
 A century later, the economic miracle scientist was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europeans in a place of rapid technological progress and social.  
 Now, in the early years of the 21st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and Asia in Europe is changing dramatically, at a time when the economies of countries are in boom as that of the European Union atollada finds itself in a crisis of identity and confidence.  
 Several Asian prominent, as the former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, today are warning to the Europeans that if we continue with its present course, Europe can become irrelevant to everything except for tourism and the unique characteristics.  
 A prominent employer Chinese that divide their time between Hong Kong and London was even more specific.  
 At a meeting of senior political leaders and private employers in Paris, a few weeks ago, said: "you Europeans are becoming a third world country, spend time to discuss issues wrong in the Constitution, the welfare State, the crisis of the pensiones- and, systematically, offer the wrong answers to the questions posed by".  
 The views of the European Union: in general, and China in particular, are the most complex and vary between the adaptation to a competitor lucid and respected and the rejection of the purely ideological.  
 In may, in France, the students, or some of them, at least that took to the streets to invent a new world dreamed of China, a Maoist China in the East of the cultural revolution, and no sense.  
 Its mania absurd and Baroque was therefore the product of the ignorance of the crimes of calling as the result of boredom in a prosperous society where unemployment virtually non-existent.  
 Today, in turn, their heirs openly critical of the capitalist model Asia.  
 Yesterday, China was a North anticapitalista for the revolutionaries utopians; today it has become an ultra-liberal nemesis for a new generation of reactionary utopians down the defenders of the status quo in Europe.  
 The students who demonstrated in the streets of Paris recently does not want to become as the Chinese or Indian; reject the logic of the globalisation and refuse to give up to social guarantees that both cost to gain.  
 The European economic elites are to China and India so very different.  
 Today, they are fully aware of their vision of post-colonial slightly nostálgica of these countries as large export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is null and void.  
 China and India become legitimate competitors who deserve respect, if not simple admiration.  
 The quality, the costs and the times of delivery in the automotive industry, for example, are reaching the European level.  
 Europe has an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but the sort of companies that are emerging world, particularly in India, each time they are in a better position to recruit egresados and 15, maintaining the and, at the same time, the costs of labour taxes and, Consequently, the global competitiveness.  
 Unfortunately, although the European leaders that the challenge of Asia, failed to use it as a test of reality in the process of globalisation irresistible and also as a called the weapons in social and economic terms.  
 To tell the truth, it would be fair to say that European politicians, with a few exceptions, as Tony Blair, took on adjusting their visions of the world in accordance with the pace of revolutionary change in Asia.  
 Caught between a lack of strategic vision for the long term and its mania for the interests in the short term, the political leaders of Europe in great measure did not manage to win the respect of their days and, unlike the European companies, which is much better in the eyes of Asia.  
 Of course, in a continent that practically failed to bury their past and to close the door to the ghosts nationalists, the European Union is seen by many times and as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.  
 But if the performance of Europe even declining, does sobreviviría this perception?  
 Perhaps the Asian would be to consider the European model as a version of the policy of Venice as a place to visit with nostalgia for its past glory and admiration for their quality of life.  
 The red, and the blue  
 The change of Condoleezza rice by Secretary of State Colin Powell on the State of the EU shows that the recent presidential election of that country continues to have strong repercussions.  
 But I understand why it is what we say about the choice of the United States is important not just for us but for the world.  
 The presidential vote of this year is proof that the us democracy is in good health, but that some things could be improved.  
 Contrary to what happened in the elections in 2000, when the President has lost the vote popular and just won the election voting in the College, this again triumphed by 3.5 million votes.  
 Although some Democrats still begrudgers, there can be no questioning the legitimacy of the victory of Bush.  
 The United States remains very divided on soft States (Republicans) and blue States (Democrats).  
 If 100,000 votes had been different in the State of red John, John Kerry would the President (although with popular vote minority).  
 The polling station was included in the Constitution of the United States to protect the small States in a federal system, but now means that political campaigns focus primarily on a dozen States where public opinion is very divided.  
 On a more fundamental level, elected Presidents without a most popular has somewhat offensive.  
 Therefore, it is time to hold a serious debate to amend the Constitution in order to abolish the polling station.  
 Some observers also complain of the rhetoric and the commercial divisive that characterised the campaign.  
 But that must be seen from a historical perspective.  
 At the time of the founding fathers, the newspapers were extremely one-sided and George Washington I was dismayed the harshness of the language of politics.  
 For a large part of its first years --para not to speak of the civil war and the reconstruction of the country - was so divided as now and what enconado rhetoric of campaign reflecting what closed of competition.  
 At the same time, in spite of the commercial refusal on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a format seriously and had a hearing.  
 In general, it is likely that a President with a growing economy comes reelecto.  
 In that sense, it is striking in the case of objective and that was what was its majority.  
 In large part that was due to the unpopularity of the war in Iraq.  
 But sought to make of the war, the low rate of creating jobs, of the inadequate attention to health and the reduction of taxation, to the groups of income but the Central themes of the campaign, but we felt that some observers that never gave a clear message.  
 Bush replied with concerns about security against terrorism and the cultural populism on subjects as homosexual marriage and the right to abortion.  
 In the end, the security and the populism of cultural vencieron the economic populism.  
 The interpretation of the election has been influenced by the surveys of the way in which they were asked to the voters (after having voted) what subjects were imported.  
 The majority (22%) respond that the "moral values", in comparison with the 20% which referred to the economy and the 19% mentioned terrorism.  
 The Conservatives or interpret it as it was they who won the election for Bush and his agenda must prevail in the next period of the President.  
 But a survey of survey lifted a week after the election stated that the category of "moral values" covered a wide range of issues, in addition to the right to abortion and homosexual marriage.  
 In fact, the opinion polls show that the 25% of the population supports homosexual marriage and the 35% are in favour of connections to homosexual couples in legal (the position defended but).  
 Nevertheless, for the 37% that is opposed to these marriages, above all in the centre of the country, the subject of red helped to mobilise the supporters of Bush to go to vote.  
 A more important question is whether the EU are divided irremediably.  
 The map of electoral red and blue has given rise to jokes and caricatures in prices on the secession of the two shores of the centre of blue red country.  
 Some of you call 'costopía ".  
 But the division is not so clear.  
 Many States on both sides gained by margins are insufficient, and if it is colorea the chart county level and not of States, a large part of the country is quite morado.  
 Cities face suburbs and rural areas is a better description that coasts facing centre.  
 In effect, the opinion polls show that the majority of Americans are concentrated in the centre of the political spectrum modest and not in the two extremes.  
 But the political elites, as the militants of parties and the Members of the Convention, tend to be more extreme that the public.  
 The principle that seems disconcerting, because we should have incentives to move at the centre of the richer in votes.  
 But many Members of Congress represent districts which are safe for their parties and the threat to their re-election is in the primary, governed by the wings more activists and extremist parties.  
 This trend is reinforced by the growth of the cable television, which attracts viewers through programmes controversial infotenimiento "and" Internet bloggers which enter into controversial ferocious without any filter leader.  
 A reform to change the borders of the electoral districts in order to make them more competitive would help to alleviate the problem, but a few of them in the President-in-Office would make modifications which might increase the risk of defeat.  
 What the result we stated that has won a mandate for the exchange of less than it seems to believe.  
 On the difficult problems of foreign policy, fiscal and social policy to be faced, would do well in voltear towards the centre in place to reconcile their basis Conservative, but it is still not clear whether there will be the political convictions or the pragmatism.  
 How to get rid of the habit of oil  
 The Chancellor, Angela Merkel grew treatment of climate change in a high priority on the agenda of Germany for its Presidency of the EU and of the G8, which starts in January.  
 I have here a concrete proposal, sufficiently general so that the world leaders, the consider and accept, and it sufficiently clear to other governments and businesses the understand: nothing more than to set a date, in the forthcoming G8 Summit, on the basis of which the races fed to oil can no longer move more in the main industrialised countries.  
 A decision of this nature would have an impact on economic and geopolitical highly positive.  
 The real cause of the concerns of today in the field of energy is not the fall of the world ’ s oil reserves, but rather that the production of oil commits the large consumers -europa, the United States and China - will lapse at the moment with the growing demand for the Asian sature market.  
 The stocks available will more and more in the Middle East, simply because the proposal in the rest of the regions will run out earlier.  
 What is more, the main exporters of oil are not prepared to subordinate their policies of investment to the requirements of the market.  
 Saudi Arabia attempting to manage its production of oil independently, as that Iran is to potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and its corruption.  
 That is suffering from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia find impediments at every step.  
 These four Member States have half of the oil reserves checked in the world and the two thirds of what potentially could be exported.  
 All of this, the costs of production, it is the right of high oil prices and the fights for closing oil contracts in Central Asia and Africa.  
 Believing that the high oil prices are good because serve the environment is overlooked some basic data of international policy.  
 First, in many of the poorest African and Asian countries, oil imports represent a significant portion of major national expenditure in the industrialised countries, which means that the growth of economic and social development are in danger, at the same time that face new crisis of debt.  
 The incomes of the production of oil hamper the reforms in the major exporting countries.  
 Thanks to its lubricada financial strength, regimes such as those in Venezuela and Iran are increasingly feel less restricted by the international rules.  
 The newcomers the universe of the energy-consuming Nations, as is the case of China, ape the old habits of the industrialised, with its long history of overlooking the abuses of human rights in order to be able to provide lucrative agreements with authoritarian regimes and rich in oil.  
 Only the heavy political and economic weight in the world, the main industrialised countries which are still being, by far, the largest consumers of hydrocarbons, can initiate a change at global level.  
 The change must begin by the transport sector, which represents more than half of the current oil consumption down a proportion of which is likely to increase in the future.  
 Therefore, the countries of the Union should come to agree to prevent that project all car fed to oil from now on.  
 This decision would suggest not against individual mobility, but against the dissipation of a scarce resource that needs with more urgency for producing synthetic materials.  
 The political leaders should not give priority to any technology in particular.  
 What is more, they should give them to the motor vehicle industry incentives to develop alternative technologies which are based on fuel from biomass, hydrogen and even natural gas during a period of transition.  
 The leaders from a political point of view, provide the internal industries, as a contribution to the benefit of, a leading position in the field of energy technology, ensuring future markets.  
 When the case, the expected significant reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide could bring coupled with the turning point needed in international policies in the field of climate change.  
 But also comes into play the economic development: cure our "addiction" oil I would leave more oil to the poorest countries, the less developed industrialised and recently, at the same time that would force the fall in prices and get rid of the geopolitical competition for energy.  
 Since a geopolitical point of view, the benefits would be equally obvious, since that was greatly reduce the capacity of the main exporters of oil to blackmail the industrialised countries.  
 It could increase the power of the negotiation of the international Community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia which seriously wish to promote political and economic reform from within.  
 For a country technologically advanced and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is in a position to propose an initiative of this nature.  
 The German, which has a PhD in physical and started his career policy being environment Minister (chairing the Convention of the first Conference of the United Nations framework Convention on climate change, may have more credibility to the time to address this issue than any of its Members of the EU and of the G8.  
 The time of a sign courageous leadership.  
 The myth of trade and aid  
 The trade and aid have been developed in words out at international level.  
 A greater assistance (including the cancellation of the debt) and a greater access to the markets of rich countries to the products of the poor countries seem to be at the top of the agenda.  
 In effect, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and why so fast.  
 In all this is losing the clearest lessons from the past five decades of economic development.  
 Among the most important highlights that the economic development is largely in the hands of the poorest Nations.  
 The countries that have been successful in the recent past have got through their own efforts.  
 The aid and access to the market, seldom have played a critical role.  
 We are a country that has a privileged and free access to the markets of its large neighbour, which is also the most powerful economy in the world.  
 Let us assume that that country can send to millions of its citizens to work from the other side of the border, that is a huge volume of investment and that is fully integrated in the international production lines.  
 In addition, the banking system of the country it supports the willingness shown by its neighbour rhetoric serve as a lender of last resort.  
 Globalisation can be better, certain?  
 Now Let us consider a second country.  
 This is facing a commercial trade in the largest market in the world, not to receive foreign aid or any kind of assistance from the West, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and the prevents call for loans of the IMF and the world Bank.  
 For if these disadvantages relations were not sufficiently debilitating, this economy also maintains its own obstacles raised in international trade (as trade of State, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions).  
 As the reader guessed, there is real countries: Mexico and Vietnam.  
 Mexico shares a border with 3,000 miles of the United States, which is not only the privileged access to the labour market and of goods, but also the ease of use to the Treasury funds of the EU (as was demonstrated in the crisis of the weight of 1995).  
 In contrast, the United States held a commercial trade against Vietnam until 1994, established diplomatic relations until 1995 and for years after that gave mostfavoured nation treatment to the imports of that country.  
 Vietnam remains outside the WTO.  
 Now Let us consider their economic performance.  
 Since the NAFTA agreement was signed in December 1992, the economy of Mexico has grown to an average annual rate of just 1% in terms of per capita.  
 It is not only very short of the rates of the superstars in Asia; it is also a fraction of the growth of Mexico over the decades that antecedieron to the crisis of the debt of the (3.6% annual between democracy and strike).  
 However, Vietnam grew to an annual rate of 5.6% per capita between the inception of its economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the EU in 1995, and since then it has continued to grow at a fast pace of 4.5%.  
 In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction in poverty, whereas in Mexico real wages fell.  
 Both countries have experienced marked increases in international trade and foreign investment, but the situation is quite different in what matters most: raising the levels of life, especially those of the poor.  
 What these examples show is that the internal efforts triumph over any thing to assess the economic fortunes of a country.  
 All the opportunities which the market of the EU gave to Mexico were not able to counteract the consequences of the errors of internal policy, above all able to reverse the appreciation of the exchange rate of the scale and to extend the rest of the economy of the improvements in productivity achieved in a limited range of activities of export.  
 What matters most is whether a country adopts the right strategy of growth.  
 Without any of the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam had a strategy focused on diversify its economy and improve the productive capacity of their internal suppliers.  
 The experiences of the post-war wider support the conclusion that the internal policies are far more important.  
 South Korea left at the beginning of the 1960s, when the foreign aid was at its height, but when it was taking over.  
 Taiwan was not foreign aid or preferential access to the markets.  
 China and India, the two superstars specific today, have been successful in great measure via efforts unique reform.  
 It would be tempting to refer the African --botswana rare successes and mauricio-- to external demand for their exports (diamonds and clothes, respectively), but that is only part of the story.  
 Obviously both countries would be considerably more poor without access to foreign markets.  
 But, as in other cases of successful development, what are the advantages of external apart that possess, but its ability to exploit them.  
 See what other countries have done with their natural resources.  
 The word 'diamond "it conjures up images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.  
 Similarly, a few of the areas elaboradoras exports which are proliferating in the world have achieved the results which we are witnessing in Mauritius.  
 Nothing of what absuelve prior to the rich countries of its responsibility to help.  
 Can make that the world is less welcoming to the corrupt dictators --por example, sharing more financial information and not recognising international contracts to be signed.  
 Also, to increase the number of workers from poor countries to those who are allowed to work in rich countries and give a greater margin for the policies aimed at growth through the relaxation of the rules of the WTO and the conditions of the EU would be a major impact of development in the long term.  
 It is clear that extending the access to the markets and to increase the aid constitute the most productive use of political capital valuable in the North.  
 The development should focus not on trade and aid but on improving the environment policy in the poor countries.  
 And now who is dependent?  
 If the great economist Argentine Raul was living at the moment, no doubt ask if the world is the reverse.  
 His theory of the "dependence", which had a great influence, argued that if the poor countries dependent on too of the export of primary products will never met the depth and necessary to hold an accelerated growth.  
 Is empantanarían, in turn, in a cycle of falling prices of raw materials at a global level and participation of the proceeds.  
 The response of the favourite policy of protectionism, turned out to be disastrous for the many Latin American countries and African that I did.  
 But the fact is that for many years, quite rightly, seemed to be predicted the trends in the long term the prices of primary products.  
 The relentless advances in agriculture and the extraction of resources put under pressure to the low prices of raw materials, especially during the 1980s and 1990s.  
 With a few exceptions, the countries that concentrated on the export of these products have to desempeños very poor, while many Asian countries with fewer resources to date was brought forward.  
 However, today, to measure the Asian giants, India and China, are United in the global economy, the price of oil, the gold, wheat and almost all the other raw materials are increasing of explosive manner.  
 If ever there --por cycles,, the price of oil is likely to fall before returning to begin to elevarse-- the trend of long term of many primary products will be clearly to boost for some time.  
 What many negotiators trade and other person in charge of the design of policies still seem to be acknowledged, though, it would have given need immediate, is that these dramatic events have major implications for the overall balance of power.  
 In effect, perhaps no other aspect of economic globalisation will raise major challenges to the global leaders in the coming decades.  
 There are many questions.  
 Are you prepared to the rich countries today for an era of codependencia in which they need to both the raw materials as the developing countries need to imports of industrial and technology?  
 Are you prepared to the inevitable flow of power and influence by the producers of raw materials to measure that these are done much more wealthy?  
 How will face the two superpowers of world, China and the United States, the fact that there are parts of the export of primary products persist in África, the Middle East and Central Asia which are full of nation States poorly trained?  
 Some autoconsagrados and describing the problem as one of finite natural resources in which the world is falling, raw materials criticisms at an alarming rate.  
 Today, many support the theory of the "utopian of the" on the production of oil, which argues that we have reached the limits of the production capacity, the wells, are secando and everything will get worse as of now.  
 However, as the outstanding historian from oil, give it the prophets of we have already stated at least four times that the world is falling without oil.  
 Each time, the threat is evaporó due to dramatic improvements in the technology.  
 At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil involved dragar with mulas.  
 No one is surprised the oil wells to metres below the seabed.  
 There have been improvements similar in all sectors of the mining of metals and agriculture.  
 No, the world is not about to stay without raw materials.  
 What happens, however, is that the integration of 2.5 billion people (nothing of China and India) to the global economy is producing a change in the demand that safety will have much greater upwards pressure on the prices of raw materials that any technological advance can compensate.  
 So, at least during the next 50 to 75 years, and perhaps even the mining operations human start on Mars sometime over the centuries to come, the prices of many natural resources will run.  
 Would destabilise the global policy for the balance of the overall economic power that goes out of it?  
 The first world war, of course, broke out in part by the German concern that the colonial powers had a very high proportion of the world to the supply of oil and raw materials.  
 Equally, in the second world war, feared by the stability of its foreign cull of oil and other natural resources.  
 Does emerge similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources (and where even the shortage of water is a probema) and the West?  
 Fortunately it seems that for the moment, especially given the dry and pragmatic approach to the Chinese leaders in regard to their problems of resources.  
 The Chinese are looking towards regions such as Africa with the hope was stable trading partners.  
 Do not share the political proselytism of the Americans, who not only want to deal with the exporters of raw materials, but also to make them.  
 On the other hand, there are also the American leaders that speak to make that the United States is self-sufficient in its energy cull.  
 But that is in essence a joke: conniving with them ourselves, perhaps, but self-sufficient, ever.  
 It is understandable that a large part of the Arab world to consider the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the real strategy of the United States in order to ensure a stable supply of energy.  
 If you are right, we can only hope that the United States has a plan B.  
 In the meantime, the prices of raw materials and continue to which is currently the exporters of oil are the largest responsible for the huge trade deficit with the United States.  
 Perhaps the strategy of us today is to try to deberle both to the exporters of raw materials that they have to rely on that the United States will be pleased.  
 That is something that, would never have provided.  
 The option of hard line of Iran  
 It is likely that the choice of the Mayor of hard line in Teheran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next President of Iran to worsen the relations with the West and the international isolation of the country.  
 However, in terms of internal, it is likely that the Islamic regime, to better than with if there had been a result more modest.  
 It is clear that clearly has a real support.  
 But that has been presented as a populist, who has spoken to help the poor, which has condemned the functioning of the government and which has acted almost as candidate of opposition is irrelevant: it was elected regime and eventually received official aid even against other candidates of hard line.  
 The regime played their letters brilliantly.  
 Grew to that, slightly more pragmatic and which was not in accordance with certain current policies, in the form of a system of "and" to your own man in the rebel.  
 Thus, the government used the feelings against the system to revitalise its leadership.  
 The fact that the last President, Muhammad supported, supporting the reform movement --si rather timidly, and in the end, we managed to nada-- simply highlights the way in which the voltearon as absolute governing the political situation.  
 That is a representative of the activists more young people of the revolution in against the Shah of a quarter of a century ago.  
 It was directly involved in the catch of the hostages Americans in Iran, although to what extent it is somewhat debatable.  
 The most worrying of all is that is close to the two main groups representing the most extremist elements of Iran: the body of the Islamic revolutionary guard and the organisation of basij.  
 The first is a parallel army in favour of the regime; the second is an organisation that are the opponents and to those seeking a more open society.  
 However, the concerns that a leadership even more - has taken the lead in Iran mitigate by two factors.  
 First, it is likely that clearly focus on internal Affairs, to try to --con, it is not clear what degree of éxito-- to improve the living standards of the Iranians more poor.  
 Secondly, the same Group that has had the control since the revolution will continue to examine the ideological and foreign policy.  
 The President has less powers of what seems, overshadowed in particular by the Supreme guidance, Khamenei Ali Khamenei.  
 Nevertheless, the choice of words is absolutely the challenge that Iran poses to the Western policy and to the stability of the Middle East.  
 In the first place, sending a claim to be the most extremist elements of Iran and the clients terrorists from country --hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Palestine and several more years peque groups which operate to the disadvantage of Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other countries which have árabes-- Green light to launch attacks.  
 It is likely that suppose that Iran will support any thing to do.  
 By outside Iran has often been relatively cautious, but hidden level has been the most important sponsor of terrorism at world level.  
 Sometimes certain Iranian officials may have acted by his account of the sort and coordinate operations will feel that they have more specific, freedom to do so.  
 In addition, openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.  
 The majority of the Iranian political --al but those to which the government allows them to operate abiertamente-- supporting the programme, but they are in favour of a more discreet and cautious approach.  
 Not, for example, I preferred to build better economic relations with the West that progress in the nuclear front.  
 If that is President of a nuclear Iran is more likely to be used the words' risky 'arms manner.  
 That is not to say that the detonaría but rather than the use with the end of blackmail diplomatic, taking the threats to level of crisis.  
 Since the Iraqi leaders proclaim daily its desire to wipe Israel off the map and fight against the EU (, pisoteó a photograph of the American flag when he was to vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.  
 Finally, it is likely that may be more decided to subvert the stability of Iraq and its victory will encourage the officials and radical extremists in Iran that are in this country.  
 Iran is sending many actors to Iraq and supporting customers who want to build in a clone.  
 The Iraqi people, including the Shia Muslim --que practise the same version of the iraníes-- generally reject that interference.  
 It is likely that a more provocations of Iran to increase the friction with Iraq and to generate more violence anti-American in this place.  
 In short, the election result of Iran is dangerous, although what comes as destabilising will depend on the actions of words and the degree of power that you take Khamenei.  
 Moreover, to deal with a Iran so openly extremist --radical even for the employers of hard line of régimen-- will be a challenge not only for the EU but also for Europe.  
 If the European countries will try to pretend that the rhetoric and and provocations of words do not matter and that it will be possible to find a diplomatic solution to Iran ’ s nuclear ambitions?  
 With not would have been easier to maintain an actual agreement or a farce of cooperation.  
 But that will require a high level of appeasement so that even the least diplomatic process can continue.  
 Some of the reformers and Iranian exiles who welcome the choice of words, because claim that his administration will see the true face of the regime and will erase the Western hopes to arrive at a compromise.  
 However, it can also represent the success of the regime in coopting dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.  
 Whatever the outcome, to the West, the triumph of may mean that everything that has to do with Iran will be claentar even more.  
 Removing the poor to give to the rich  
 The President Bush seems determined to ruin the budget of the USA for the coming years.  
 As has assumed the charge, it was possible to envisage a future budgetary surpluses virtually uninterrupted.  
 Today, through a combination of lower taxation driven by Republicans, in an economy is slowing down, the desinfle the bubble of the market accionario and a massive increase in defence expenditure, the horizon is being dominated by huge deficits.  
 Coming things worse, since the Bush administration and Congress dominated by Republicans are preparing a deepening of the chaos.  
 The harm that will probably it will damage to the USA and would increase instability in the world economy.  
 Traditionally, the Republican Party us preferred balanced Budgets.  
 It changed with the management of the who, when the Republicans Conservatives added tax reductions, even at the expense of the emergence of large budget deficits.  
 The President, I said to the American people could benefit from lower taxes, an increase in military and the continuation of their favourite programmes of expenditure, especially at the same time.  
 It is not surprising that the result was a series of general budget deficits which took years redress.  
 Both the President George Bush senior as bill Clinton had to raise taxes to settle the chaos of the was announced.  
 These tax increases probably contributed to the defeat of the President Bush senior at the hands of bill Clinton in 1992.  
 And yet had decided, courageously, completing the process to recover the balance is, in part, to safeguard the financing of long term programme of retirement of social security.  
 When it had left over in the year 2000, the budgetary situation was the best in decades.  
 Then came the President George Bush jr. to play the role played by: large reductions of taxation, a great increase in military expenditure and a follow-up or even expansion of the popular programmes of expenditure.  
 The result was predictable.  
 In January 2001, outlined the result of contradictory procedure for the years 2002-2011 would have a surplus of 12 5.6 billion dollars.  
 In 2002, these surpluses planned had been extinguished.  
 In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, we might expect that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by Republicans were cautious when it comes to propose new reductions of taxation.  
 But no, its major priority is put in force new tax reductions that will benefit mainly to the rich.  
 At the same time, the administration is proposing large increases in the military expenditure.  
 With the presidential election of November 2004 on the horizon, we can be sure that there will be no major cuts in the programmes of expenditure not war.  
 So it is that it seems that the mass influx of budget deficits to stay.  
 If the internal expenditure simply stands at as a fraction of the national income, the result of contradictory procedure for the next ten years will be a combined deficit of 12 1.5 billion.  
 But it may be that this figure is optimistic, since that probably does not adequately the costs of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of reduced taxes, or the risks of higher rates of interest in the coming years.  
 Why Republicans were concerned so little all this chaos?  
 Some Republicans the matter more the lowering of the taxes of the wealthy almost any other thing.  
 Others believe that the budget will make it necessary to make major cuts in the internal expenditure of government, reducing the size of the State, which is their wish to more intended.  
 The problem with this last point of view is that the majority of those paying taxes, like the internal support programmes and not very easily the application of major cuts in expenditure.  
 A further question is what the Americans vote for such policies, when they should know that we will only problems.  
 A response is that many voters do not see the forthcoming budgetary problems.  
 A better response is that the majority of us voted in reality by these policies.  
 Participation in the elections of 2002 was just a 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of the voters admissible.  
 Of course, the prospects are not to be so bleak.  
 Can prevent war in Iraq.  
 Tax reductions proposed can be refused or leave.  
 But I predict large budget deficits in the coming years and a growing feeling of unease within and outside of the USA about their situation.  
 The foreign investors can decide to stop funding the budget of the USA and the liberalization of current account in terms of salary.  
 The dollar can undermine and can be stepped up the concerns about inflation.  
 All it can do that those who design the policies of the USA having less confidence and are less flexible in its answers to the "economic shocks'.  
 It is likely that the poor, within and outside of the USA, suffer the worst part, when President Bush and the Convention I say the American people and the world that, due to the large budget deficits, there is not enough money to confront the problems of poverty, health and education.  
 Unless the Americans and current awareness about taking these risks, the rich will stay with other gift of thousands of millions of dollars, whereas the country and the world suffer the painful consequences for many years to come.  
 The lessons of the prudence is the United States  
 George W. Bush has contributed most to the ruin of the economic policy of the USA that no other President of the history of the United States, even going beyond its mentor, Ronald Reagan.  
 In just three years, has destroyed a fragile political consensus for which had been in a decade, and that could take another decade to reconstruct.  
 In so doing, has put at risk the social stability and the economic strength of long term of the United States.  
 Since the challenges of these long term which the USA is handled so bad way are not exclusive, the risks of the USA provides important lessons for other countries.  
 The main problem with fiscal policy is that politicians can make popular temporarily at reducing taxes and to increase public expenditure, creating a huge public debt and leaving its payment for the future.  
 This trick may last for a few years, but the sooner rather than later défitits these and the growing public debt will give painful steps backwards in this policy.  
 Nevertheless, a cynical political can achieve your re-election and might already be withdrawn as exploits the crisis.  
 One might imagine that, following the hundreds of similar episodes of irresponsible measures throughout the world in the past decades, the voters would be allergic to tricks like these.  
 However, what we are doing, buying popularity give massive reductions in taxation, while at the same time increasing military expenditure and even raises the cost of education and health.  
 The result is a budget deficit, equivalent to more than 5% of the pgb.  
 What is worse is that the financial perspectives of long term of United States were already problematic before it began its irresponsible policies.  
 The population of the USA is ageing, so that there will be a radical increase in the costs of public health and pension systems.  
 A careful calculation shows that it is likely that the income of future under the policies favoured by Bush are insufficient in several dozen billion dollars to finance the costs of State pensions, health care and other costs, expected by the public.  
 At some point in the future, it will be necessary, therefore, to increase radically the collection of taxes, drastically to reduce public spending, or both, to correct the actions of Bush.  
 Why, then, supports the public these policies?  
 Because we understand or the worried some of these consequences of long term, even if we Finally end up damaging to the majority of the Americans.  
 By, the taxpayers more wealthy because they are happy to receive the main part of the tax cuts.  
 Incredibly, 5% more rhetoric of the Americans received almost half of tax reductions, and clearly these taxpayers wealthy hope that the other 95% of the kind, and the poor) bear the greater part of the cuts in expenditure and increases the taxes that are to apply in the future.  
 In the meantime, has convinced to many voters poor and kind, which should also be happy, to say that they will have to pay their small rebates of taxation with cuts of much greater in the future government services, if the policies of their administration persist in the long term.  
 If the Americans have memory policy, understand that were already in this' mountain 'is a Russian once in the past 20 years.  
 Ronald Reagan also came to power promising large reductions in taxation and significant increases in military expenditure.  
 The result was a huge budget deficit in the Middle of the regulations.  
 The tax cuts made tremendously popular, and helped to win the election in 1984.  
 It was needed over a decade (beginning for the second period of popular, and following on the periods of George Bush senior and bill Clinton) in order to be able to return to a budget surplus.  
 Of course, it meant to approve new tax increases, which cost the re-election George Bush senior and led the polarised environment in the 1990s.  
 It is almost certain that history is being repeated.  
 Some of the ideologists of right of the Bush administration, believe that the deficits, and Finally need to drastically reduce social spending.  
 Waiting dismantle programmes such as social security and trust.  
 But the American public strongly supports these social programmes.  
 So that the right-wing strategy to reduce taxes first to force to make cuts in the social programmes after will not work, and sooner or later it will be necessary to increase taxes.  
 Others in the Bush administration argue that the tax cuts are important for Europe to the USA of recession.  
 This argument is also wrong.  
 The economy of the USA could be recovered without tax cuts, and perhaps even more solid way.  
 In any case, it is a great mistake the tax base policies of long term in the business cycle of short term.  
 There are two interesting lessons for other countries.  
 The first is that the increasing budget deficits of the USA sooner or later will limit the international power of the United States.  
 The Americans supported the war in Iraq just because we do not have to pay for it with an increase in the taxation.  
 When they put the option of choosing between adventures abroad and greater taxation, is much less likely that support expensive military operations on the outside.  
 In fact, the USA be subdivided deeply when the public should face the chaos is left by Bush.  
 The second lesson is that countries should plan their Budgets by taking into account the increase in the costs of an ageing population.  
 The budgetary conditions of long term rarely are unambiguous for the taxpayers or Parliament.  
 It should demand to the governments that submitted budgetary assessments of long term along with its annual budgetary proposals, with the aim of reducing the tendency to the political manipulation of the short term in the budget.  
 The USA may serve as early warning to other countries.  
 The White House should give to the rest of the same warning that magicians give viewers: "do not try to it in their homes.  
 The policy on the capital market  
 Many analysts of economic and financial complain that the governments of the developing countries often manipulated and their markets accionarios and that these are more political than economic.  
 The course tacit seems to be that, on the contrary, some in Pristina nature of economic addresses the markets of values in the advanced countries, and that, therefore, to predict its performance is as anticipating the growth of the trees.  
 That accionarios overview of the markets of the developing countries is not wrong, but only partial, because it also applies to the markets of the developed countries.  
 In effect, the best analysts knows that predict the performance of the capital market in any country is in large measure to predict how the government wants to thrive investors in the political environment for the moment.  
 We are seeing the market accionario of the United States, the largest in the world by far.  
 The general perception is that the government fails in peace to the companies and the dividends resulting from investing in the market accionario reflect the forces of a capitalist economy robust.  
 This is one of the reasons for which the EU is a magnet for the investors throughout the world.  
 But the dividends who do so attractive to the markets of the EU accionarios reflect a delicate balance of power.  
 In particular, the tax rates which affect the actions have been mixed with the time when change the political pressure.  
 For example, during the second world war, the political support to the government and the large fortunes decreased significantly increased taxes to the profits of capital, to the dividends and to the high income in general.  
 When the second world war was a solid recovery of the great depression of the thirty, the President of the Convention agregaron added and a tax on the profits of excessive to ensure that the shareholders do not cross frontiers too.  
 In contrast, in 1980, when there was war but the market accionario was weak, the Americans were elected to Ronald Reagan, a man who many considered too right-wing to be President.  
 The requested - and obtuvo-recortes to tax on the profits of capital, the dividends and membership.  
 The political interference in the capital market is not limited to a tax on the profits of capital, the dividends and membership.  
 The taxation on capital, the consumer, imports and sales, which pays the corporations or indirectamente-pueden have a direct effect on the extended corporate profits and, therefore, on the market accionario.  
 It is not by chance that on all the places where we have the capital markets, the governments have carefully that the taxes do not destroy the net corporate profits.  
 In effect, the policy on the markets accionarios does not end with the taxes.  
 On the contrary, hardly any activity of the government has an impact on the corporate profits and, at the same time, on the capital market.  
 After the collapse of the market accionario of 1929, the government of the EU suspended the activities of a, to allow the companies are able to obtain a monopólico raising its value.  
 This policy has delayed the recovery of the enormous unemployment, but even that was able to monitor the political forces set out in favour of the support of the capital market.  
 Similarly, one of the most important things that was President Reagan was destroyed much of the power that what was left to the trade unions in the United States, which compete for their slice of the corporate profits.  
 The defeat which inflicted by the strike of air traffic controllers in 1981 was a parteaguas to the trade Union movement us - and to the capital market, which started its dramatic upward trend in 1982.  
 The government of the EU has shown particularly aggressive in supporting the securities market since the climax of the bubble of the Europe of the actions in 2000, above all by cutting interest rates on repeated occasions.  
 Of course, this policy is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not to support the market accionario.  
 But that is percibiera that one of the fundamental factors that pesaban over the economy was the price to the base of the actions is a sign of the importance of the market accionario telling of the EU.  
 In effect, the response of the authority is not limited to the monetary incentives.  
 The national accounts of income and product of the EU show that the rate of effective taxation on the corporate profits (the percentage of the profits that are in fact the government pays via taxes) became a ceiling of 33.7% in the first quarter of 2000 - the height of the capital market and the economy in general-y fell at 20.2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market was under.  
 A large part of this decline reflects the specific measures of support measures adopted by the Convention, as well as the perception among the corporations in the current political and economic climate can be more aggressive in tax evasion.  
 Moreover, after the collapse of the capital market, the maximum tax on the profits of the actions to be reduced from 35% to 15%, which gave a substantial benefit to the investors in the long term and reinforced the effect of trying to reinvest the dividends.  
 Once again, this cutting tax is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, which, of course, we cannot say almost any measure aimed at supporting the capital market.  
 But what rules that justification is credible, is the balance of the political forces.  
 It could be said that, during the last 200 years, the same variables, including the hostility towards the high taxes and a trade Union movement weak, have brought about in the EU - and that it is therefore expected to continue operating in the future, producing higher dividends in the market accionario and appealing huge flows of foreign investment.  
 Those who think that the investments in the market of values of the EU maintain a strong tendency of growth for decades may well be right.  
 But we need to know what it is that is already predicting.  
 Essentially, not only are making predictions about the economy, but also about the policies - and perhaps on the values culturales-que give way to the strategies and the economic performance.  
 The global housing  
 Housing is to give more women, embedded in a particular place as a tree, and, by extension, growing or marchitándose in response to the specific local conditions.  
 All the world comes as a lightning by our television screens, but the market of our houses, constituted almost in its entirety by amateur or, still planted there, in our own back yard.  
 Soon, however, all this could be changed.  
 In one month, the stock exchange of commercial (WEC), in collaboration with my company, my, and also with, and with the contracts up ', launched future contracts and options on the estate prices in ten cities of the United States.  
 The joint wanted to be agreed on the building of Europe 's contracts will be, which was created on the basis of the academic work according to which my colleague and I began almost twenty years ago.  
 For many years, we have been campaigning in favour of the future about housing, but, until now, no stock exchange wanted to use this type of indicators so as to create a market for the future.  
 The markets of future on the prices of housing, allow investors from all over the world to invest indirectly on property in the United States, buying interests in them by means of these markets.  
 An investor in Paris, Rio de Janeiro or Tokyo able to invest in homes occupied by their owners in new York, the accommodations and and.  
 A fundamental principle of the theory of financial down 'diversification "or" distribution of risk "- suggests that the interest in the new contracts will be high.  
 The individuals and companies in new York, for example, are sobreexpuestos has its risks property or, in such a way that they should reduce the risk of future on the selling price of housing in new York.  
 The people in Tokyo will assume part of this risk buying future on the prices of housing in new York if the price is appropriate.  
 The new will continue to live in their own homes, but we now have distributed the risk of investment at world level.  
 It has not tried to a market of future genuine about housing unifamiliares since 1991, when the future and choices of 1998 (which today is part of euronext.liffe failed in its attempt to launch a market is in great Britain.  
 This attempt to never created much of the volume of transactions.  
 The stock exchange organised a Party and each one.  
 The British markets of investments in margins (spread-betting), and some retail markets online, never represented much either.  
 Will it be different this time?  
 Without doubt, to launch a new market is always a proposal uncertain: people want to go to parties will only if many people; if there is no, it does not want to go.  
 In the same way, in the markets without many investors, can implement sufficient operations and to create the necessary repayments that attract.  
 As usually happens with the big parties, may prove a mystery how to start the new markets are substantial, but we know that, from time to time, happens.  
 The initial indicators suggest a growing interest in the operations with future on the prices of housing, above all because of the fact that there is talk of both the 'bubble' stresses the importance of property to diversify the risk.  
 Following the announcement of the, one of its competitors, the board of the exchange, said that is planned to create future contracts and options in the major American regions, which will be based on the price of property means published by the association of national agents of goods roots.  
 However, over and above the strong public interest in investing in housing and to ring-fence the risks that this entails, should resolve other critical issue for which the markets of future success: must prove to the prices and investors must understand what we mean these prices.  
 I believe that there are very good possibilities that many of these markets of future soon pronostiquen falls substantial than in some of the American cities in the next year.  
 They will be in what the operators call "backwardation" (market invested): the future price on the market today is the least that the current price of housing.  
 Perhaps this phenomenon is not produced the first day on which are placed on the market of the future about housing, but there are good chance that it will happen in a matter of months.  
 Perhaps we need to "backwardation" in some of these markets if it is going to fulfil its function.  
 It is known that there was a huge explosion of buildings in many of these towns (and in other parts of the world in the last few years.  
 It is likely that international investors, do not want to invest in these cities to less than the expectations of a fall in prices should be based on the markets of the future, as we well know the people of Tokyo on the basis of their own experience harmful.  
 But if the phenomenon of 'backwardation "is strong enough, even the investors who think that the property market American goes way to a fall even be able to expect a good return of the future on the prices of housing, because we are already getting a lower price on the market of the future.  
 Nevertheless, some adjustments will be needed for the new who want to protect their own property investments sold future contracts which have a fall in prices incorporated.  
 They will have to get used to the idea that since the fall of the market, and that can only be protected by this margin of possible future lower prices which exceed this expectation.  
 To tell the truth, this type of adjustments in our way of thinking perhaps be produced as actually seeing prices from the market in future.  
 Until now, the future of the Europe of the goods roots was merely a question of different opinions.  
 When the markets to create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, will be better prepared for monitoring the risks facing these cities and, thus, to stabilise their economies and our own lives.  
 What news moving the markets?  
 The capital markets in great part of the world have been marked falls cumulative since approximately 10 may, in general, the low took place in a period of two weeks until around 23 may, but the prices falling in average followed since then.  
 The problems in the markets of values of the world can result in problems for the world economy?  
 Let us look at the major falls.  
 The amount of the main countries, involving more important was produced in India, where the prices fell by the actions of between 10 and on 22 may.  
 The debacle on the other side of the globe was almost as important and topical and depths took a day or two after the India: in Argentina, the Europe of the actions fell in Brazil%; in Brazil, in Mexico, and in Mexico, the.  
 The markets of Europe also have suffered large losses.  
 In Sweden, the Europe of the actions and the 15,2% between 9 and the 22 may; around in the same period, the prices fell the% in Germany, the% in France and great Britain and the 9.3% in Italy.  
 In the same way, in Asia, the Europe of the 5% of the shares fell in Korea, the 9.3% in Hong Kong and the 8% in Japan, approximately the same period.  
 Many analysts try to link these facts with what happened in the United States.  
 But there is the price of the actions fell just 5.2% between 9 and on 24 may.  
 Neither China seems to be that the fall of representation, for the Europe of the actions there is, in fact, increased during this period.  
 The current account economists revolves around the monetary policy.  
 Immediately after the great fear of deflation in 2003, the Central banks throughout the world they sat down their rates of interest, which has sparked off a speculative outbreak of both in the capital market and in the building.  
 But now, according to this vision, the rates of interest in boost are beginning to feel, that presages future falls in prices of assets.  
 This argument, in fact, have a quota of truth.  
 The federal reserve in the United States indeed increased rates on 10 may, and its President, pointed out, then, so that it may have other subas rates in the future.  
 On 17 may be given to meet discouraging data on inflation in the United States, which suggests that there is a future monetary adjustment in donation.  
 The economists, like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is happening.  
 But, in doing so, they tend to exaggerate the role of the Central banks.  
 In fact, the increase of the prices in the United States was just one in a series of subas rates in the sixteenth consecutiva-.  
 No other Central Bank important increased rates after that started falls from the markets of values between Croatia and the markets of June, as several did (the European Central Bank, India, South Korea, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey).  
 Another factor is the price of oil, which increased the 24% between 22 March and on 2 may, making records all the time.  
 Without doubt, this was an important fact that may affect the securities markets throughout the world.  
 The increases in the price of oil has been responsible for virtually all the economic downturns since the second world war.  
 Even so, the increases in the price of oil are not in line with the period in the Middle of may in which the rates of the securities markets fell more grind to a halt.  
 To say that the increases in the price of oil caused the falls in the securities market presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.  
 But the capital markets is not very logical, and could be a response to the changes in the price of oil.  
 As happens with any other price in the financial markets, a rises draws attention.  
 When oil prices rise quickly, people look at the news linked to the price of oil and talking more about oil prices, thus creating a greater sensitivity on these reports.  
 The crisis in the Middle East is linked to the price of oil and dominated the news in the month of may.  
 The increases in the price of crude oil, possibly amplificaron in the mind of the investors signals doom and the strong language used by various political figures.  
 On 8 may, in response to the statements to the Iranian President, declarations of, the Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, may said that "the President of Iran should remember that Iran is also what can be wiped off the map".  
 In the same way, almost at the beginning of the collapse of the securities markets may, has visited Indonesia, the most highly populated country in the world with a majority Muslim population, and on 13 may, the daily newspapers published that the students of two of the most renowned universities country what had ovacionado stand.  
 This could have been interpreted as a test of the bluster from words on the nuclear issue, it was redituando politically, what powers the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East could result in oil prices even higher.  
 These reports may seem far more remote from the capital market that monetary policy.  
 But how to react to the public facing them, together with the recent increases in the price of oil, can respond to a large extent by the change in the psychology of the market.  
 The attitudes towards the risk changing all the time, and episodes such as the statements and and 8th may precipitate this kind of changes.  
 In this way, while these things happen ways difficult to quantify, perhaps the analysts should pay equal attention to the words that the question of when trying to understand the direction that make the markets of values in the world.  
 Economists are perhaps not focus on public opinion and how interacts with the changes in Europe, the news from all over the world and the dynamic of the speculative.  
 After all, make it implies that the economic developments are less predictable (and economists, but omniscientes) what they like to think.  
 But this approach makes sense in what to intuition concerns.  
 What is happening, really, by the mind of the investors?  
 That is a figure carismática; then, no.  
 That is embarking on an adventure; then not.  
 And, perhaps the most important, and it is a destabilising influence; then, no.  
 In fact, whatever its root cause, the falls in the Middle of may in the prices of the actions in all the world indicating a psychology of the market unstable.  
 It is hard to believe that were linked solely with opinions on a possible monetary policy and not with issues more important and more profound, such as energy and political tension, which underpin the performance of the world economy.  
 Why should pay more for equity?  
 Marks & Spencer, a supermarket chain and clothes shops with financing in the whole of great Britain, recently announced that it is becoming all its branch of coffee and tea, with a total of only lines, to introduce fair trade labels, a symbol of that single market represents a 'ethical'.  
 The chain for markets only tea and coffee introduce fair trade labels on its 200 canteens we resurrected.  
 It is also promoting the purchase of shirts and other products manufactured with cotton introduce fair trade labels.  
 The announcement was produced for "introduce fair trade labels fortnight ', a promotion of two weeks of products introduce fair trade labels that included giras where farmers in developing countries were numbered to the British what way introduce fair trade labels assisting in their communities.  
 The move towards a more made important progress with ethical also in the United States, since the consumers indisputably, more and more, by organic food produced locally and eggs from hens that are not held in cages.  
 In great Britain, a survey concluded that half of the people who are the firm the symbol introduce fair trade labels as recognised and understood that relates to products that are better conditions for the farmers in the third world.  
 There is a research study in the United States, but on the basis of data linked, and discussions with my own pupils, reveals that the figure would be much lower.  
 The traders seeking a certification introduce fair trade labels should pay the producers a price which cover the costs of a sustainable production and to offer a, which allows them to live.  
 For example, the minimum price for the produce is $dollars by 450 grammes, no matter how may have dropped the market price.  
 If the market price rises in excess of that figure, the price of introduce fair trade labels will increase so that follow costing five cents more by every 450 grammes.  
 To the small farmers, for its part, they are required to be organised in joint or other groups which permit the democratic participation.  
 The plantations and factories can use the label introduce fair trade labels if the paying their employees decent wages, if comply with the standards of health, safety and the environment, if we allow them to organise unions or other forms of associations of workers, if they offer a decent housing to workers who do not live in its own House and if we do not use child labour or forced labour.  
 Not all agree to introduce fair trade labels.  
 Lindsey, director of the centre for studies of trade policy of the promercadista studies Institute, believes that the campaign to introduce fair trade labels is a blind alley well-meant ".  
 With some justification, argues that the real cause of the fall in coffee prices was not the monopolising of multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Brazil and Vietnam, combined with new techniques which make it possible to cultivate them with less manpower and, therefore, with lower costs.  
 According to the opinion, however, if we want to help the farmers to produce, we should encourage them to abandon the coffee and produce more profitable crops - and here, rightly points out, the trade barriers and the benefits of the rich countries as obstacles that must desmantelarse- or go to products of greater value, as with special, who have higher prices.  
 What is curious about the argument of point, however, is that you could say that the campaign to introduce fair trade labels is doing exactly what he recommends to bolster the coffee growers to produce a special bond with a value of more elevado-.  
 The economists pro-mercado not objetan that on the esnobismo blatantly corporations to promote their products.  
 If people want to pay USD 48 by 450 grams of Jamaica because of Jamaica because that is what it prefers James bond, economists not objetan that the market is distorted.  
 Why, then, can be critical when consumers to choose to pay 12 dollars by 450 grams of that, you know, was cultivated without toxic chemical substances, under trees that favour the survival of birds, by farmers who can afford to feed and educate their children?  
 Economists could respond to that, if one wants to help the people to feed and educate their children can pay USD 10 for 450 grammes to produce that is not introduce fair trade labels but which has the same taste and give the USD 2 that saves a charitable institution that you give food and education to the boys poor.  
 A strategy, but it is possible to introduce fair trade labels has its advantages.  
 The farmers know that they have to offer a product which it likes to consumers, both for his taste and for the way in which it farm.  
 If their product markets, can pride itself on having produced something which the people seeking throughout the world.  
 From the perspective of the farmers, it is preferable to receive a bonus for to sell a product introduce fair trade labels that receive a donation of charity which would receive all ways, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.  
 To pay more for a label to introduce fair trade labels is not "anti-mercado" to pay more for a label ethics, and reflect best ethical priorities.  
 Introduce fair trade labels is not a government subsidy.  
 Its success depends on the demand side of the market, not the political lobby.  
 Fortunately, in Europe, this demand from the market is growing rapidly.  
 It is to be hoped that we will soon reach levels of similar in all the developed world, and where people can choose what are its discretionary expenditure.  
 Marranos, calves and the us democracy  
 In the midst of all the headlines that talked of the Democrats had got the monitoring of the Congress of the United States, an important step inadvertent election result today.  
 Although emphasised the shortcomings of the system in the United States, I referred the faith in the sympathy of the Americans and flow.  
 In spite of the citizens can submit a draft law of the popular vote direct if meeting a sufficient number of firms.  
 This year, one of the issues that were in the boleta was a law to ban that atara or confinara to a marrana preñada or to a calf criada for beef way that you were prevented from the animal given back to walk freely, and to extend their limbs in full.  
 Those who know little about the breeding of modern industrial may wonder why we need this legislation.  
 Under the methods of rearing which were universal 50 years ago and which still remain and in some countries at the moment, all the animals have room to be given back and pushing back their limbs.  
 However, today, around 90% of the marranas of animal husbandry, the mothers of the pigs are kept and killed to obtain meat, meat and ham, pass the major part of their lives locked in cages that measure approximately 60 cms. by 2.2 metres.  
 May not be given back, with their legs were used by comprehensive or to give more than one step ahead or backwards.  
 In other marranas they maintain attached with ropes shorter, given that we also stand back.  
 To calves are locked in a similar way for all his life in pens which do not allow them to be given back, were or pushing back their limbs.  
 These methods are essentially resources for saving work to facilitate the handling of animals and enable the farms which have thousands or tens of thousands of animals on a small number of workers but described.  
 Also prevent the risk of energy is wasted and struggling.  
 Several years ago, in the wake of the protests of the organisations of the protection of animals, the European Union gave its scientific veterinary Committee, a report on these methods.  
 The Committee found that the animals suffer at not being able to move with freedom and not to have absolutely nothing to do in all the day.  
 Of course, the common sense would have led to the same conclusion.  
 In the wake of the report, the EU set dates after which would be banned confining so to those animals.  
 In the case of calves, the date of 1 January 2007, since today has arrived.  
 The individual stalls for marranas, which are already illegal in the United Kingdom and Sweden, will be banned in all of the EU from 2013.  
 We are gradually adopting measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, which usually stands apretujadas in cages wire without room to extend its wings.  
 In the United States there is no national measure of that kind.  
 Rather, as my fellow Europeans asking me why the United States are lagging behind with regard to Europe in terms of the welfare of the animals, I had a reply.  
 If I were pressing, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans are concerned but by the risk that the Europeans.  
 Then, in 2002 the defenders of the welfare of the animals involved in the electoral boletas Florida a proposal to prohibit the stalls for the marranas.  
 To the surprise of many, received the approval of the 55% of the voters.  
 Last month in Arizona, despite an opposition well financed from the sector on an industrial scale, the prohibition of the small cages for marranas and calves was also approved with a support of 62%.  
 Neither this nor the Member States are particularly progressive - both voted by George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.  
 That is why the results States firmly that if all the Americans are given the opportunity to vote on the closure of marranas preñadas and calves in places so small, the majority would vote against.  
 It seems that the Americans to the welfare of the animals the matter as much as to the Europeans.  
 For that reason, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States in the field of animal welfare, we must look at the political systems.  
 In Europe, the concerns of the voters on the welfare of the animals have been able to have an influence on the Members of the national parliaments and the Members of the European Parliament, which has resulted in national legislation and the definition of the EU to respond to these concerns.  
 In contrast, in the United States have not had a similar concerns Le effect on the Members of the Convention.  
 There is no legislation requires about the welfare of farm animals, and very little in the State.  
 That, I believe, is due to the fact that the sector on an industrial scale da tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of the Convention seeking reelegirse.  
 The motion for the welfare of the animals, despite the broad support of the people, has not been able to compete in the sphere of the political process and the donations to the campaigns.  
 In the United States policy the money we need more than the opinion of the electorate.  
 The Party discipline is weak and the representatives must gather themselves to the majority of the funds needed for his re-election, and this happens every two years in the case of the Members of the House of representatives.  
 In Europe, where the partisan discipline is rigid and the parties, not the candidates, are those who Fund campaigns, the money plays a minor role.  
 In the United States, a country that is proud of its democratic traditions, not just leave losing the marranas and calves.  
 What is new in the new Afghan army?  
 The murder multitudinario from the Minister of aviation of Afghanistan (maybe prompted by Members of the temporary administration of Afghanistan) shows that the Afghan society remains deeply fisurada.  
 The first reforms of the Afghan army just make those wider divisions.  
 The Minister of defence of the temporary administration of Hamid Karzai in Kabul already appointed to the officers higher that new army.  
 The Minister, the general Mohammed, is a tayik constituency in the North of the country that three months ago you the command of the forces of the Northern Alliance that seven Kabul after the American bombarderos were clarified the way.  
 On the whole, their appointments pose a challenge of the objective that has Mr Karzai of reuniting the country.  
 Afghanistan is a country, multi-ethnic, being the Pashtun the largest Group, with two fifths of the total.  
 The Hazars and make every tayik which close to one fifth of the population.  
 Of treintaiocho raised the official status of general by Mr circle, treintaisiete are tayik and the other Uzbek.  
 If one of the 15 to 17 million Pashtun country is hiring as soldiers, act under a command structure made up almost in its entirety by tayiks.  
 The language of the Pashtun, however, is as distinct from the Spanish tayik as the English and millions of the Pashtun in age of stay in the militia known only a breath of tayik, in the best of the cases.  
 The geographical profile of new military leadership is as narrow as their ethnic Constitution.  
 Treintaicinco treintaiocho officers of the most senior come from a small area of the North of Kabul, constituída by the province in the province of that does indeed identify the airport of) and by the Panjshir valley, which for a long time it was the place of the Northern Alliance.  
 Put another way, the leaders of the potential of twenty-seven twenty-nine provinces of Afghanistan were excluded from the new military elite of the country.  
 Maybe a Group with a basis of so little variety could not to give the impression that its Members meet a secretive clique if representaran to a large section of the twelve or political parties of the country.  
 But that is not the case.  
 18 of the treintaiocho top commanders coming from a Party, the one, the Islamic faction led from long ago by Mullah and exprofesor theology.  
 This was the Party that gobernó Kabul in the Middle of the 1990s, leading to the bloodshed and the chaos that caused the majority of the Afghans to welcome the Taliban.  
 Almost igualando the number of Members of the military in the perspective, are the Communists.  
 Dieciseis of the treintaiocho have been a long time in line with that Party, whose manoeuvres of the end of the 1970s, led to the Soviet invasion of 1979-89, which cost two and a half million lives in Afghanistan.  
 Today, the majority of the Afghan people see the Communists, with the same sympathy that the Czechs or the Poles reserved for national socialism of Hitler.  
 True, the people in Afghanistan, as in all parts, joined the Communist Party for various reasons and ningua way were all supporters of the strict ideologies.  
 But in the case of the general rule by six were employed professionals from the Communist Party and followed working for it after the invasion of the red army.  
 The six, apart from the other three Communists who served as officers of the Afghan army, worked actively over the decade of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.  
 Let us imagine how the French have reacted if a quarter of the official body of existing in France in the juridical was taken when it took the side of the of their country.  
 In Afghanistan, the news from travelling fast in the mouth.  
 The nationalists Afghans (between those who are almost all the Afghans) will discover as soon as the political background to the Members of the inner circle of general, if it is that we do not know.  
 Even this sobrecogeedora evidence of unipartidismo and willingness in the formation of the high command of the new army could be neutralised if the generals brindaran professionalism and commitment to strangle patriotic values of a real national armed force through its work.  
 Unfortunately, only ten of the treintaiocho promoted by the military have fungido as military officers professional.  
 An eleventh served as a pilot.  
 In contrast, twenty-four of the total (the background to the remaining four are unknown) comes from civil society, with any professions, or of the offices of the Communist Party, or in one of the cases, make career as Mullah.  
 What means all those statistics in terms of the daily reality?  
 It means that when the commanders of the international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as the military and the American diplomats, are aware of the asistende Minister of defence of Afghanistan will be with the Afghan notably brutal and corrupt military Commander and Communist that stands in contact with old friends of the red army in service in Moscow.  
 It means that the leader of the armed forces in Afghanistan, as well as the head of operations and the head of military intelligence, are also Communists, men whose loyalty is uncertain and who distrust of the majority of the Afghan people.  
 Is that a team that would have the chance to unify the Afghanistan fragmented by the war?  
 What will inspire the presence in Kabul of so dudable crew, confidence in the three quarters of the population of Afghanistan have been excluded from the high command of the army?  
 Or is this list, rather, harvest of an approach to the governance of the kind 'everything for the winner' which is intended (at some point future) to trigger another bloody around national in the hands of those whose legitimate interests have been cynically persecuted?  
 The Americans, Europeans and people of the United Nations in the definition of policies should ponder these cuestionamientos before afford if a merciless decision-making power at the expense of a small minority and unpopular.  
 A recognition to the irrational  
 My Applause for the new Nobel Prize winners of the economy of economics, of the university of the and the, the university of the Virginia.  
 Like many other galardones Nobel Prize winners, these are not just a recognition of the work carried out by señero economics and Smith, but also to the schools of thought which helped to lead.  
 Economics, which is sicólogo, has shown how people behave systematically ways less than what we believe the Orthodox economists.  
 Research shows that not only the people sometimes act so different to what predict the standard economic theories, but that what we do in a regular and systematic, and in ways which can understand and interpret through alternative scenario that compete with the used by the Orthodox economists.  
 For all the participants in the market, and, indeed, for the observers and current) it seems to be a great innovation.  
 The agents of wall street that put on sale actions that they knew that went to assert anything took the irrationality and that, but have made.  
 A large part of the foot and which led to the bubble economy based on the exploitation of the sicología investors.  
 In fact, this nonsense is not new, nor to the profession of the economists.  
 For a long time John Maynard Keynes described the securities market as something based not on rational people who are fighting for develar the fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest in gaining who conceal the verdict of the judges.  
 The Sakharov Prize of this year is a recognition of the debate to a market economy, as did the Prize last year (which was one of the three winners).  
 The winners of the past year put emphasis on the different participants in the market have distinct (and flawed) information, and in which these asymmetries in the information have a profound impact on how the economy.  
 In particular, the themselves from last year that the markets involved were not efficient in general, and that the government should play an important role.  
 The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets operate efficiency as if the manejara an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.  
 This is innovation for those working day to day in the market, and to make their fortunes advantage and saving the imbalances in the information).  
 For more than 20 years, the economists have been enchanted by the so called models of the 'expectations rational ", which are all the participants have the same (if not perfect) information and which are perfectly rational manner, that the markets are perfectly efficient, that unemployment will never exists (except when it is brought about by the greed of the trade unions or by the minimum wages of the governments, and in which there is never a rationing of credit.  
 These models that have prevailed, especially in the American universities, despite the evidence to the contrary, it is a testimony to the triumph of the ideology on science.  
 Unfortunately, the university students of these programmes are those who now devising policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that has been called fundamentalism of the market.  
 That is not malentienda: the models of expectations rational made an important contribution to the economy; the stringency that its supporters imposed the economic thinking helped to highlight the weaknesses of many underlying assumptions.  
 The good science recognises its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations often do not have shown this modesty.  
 But it is of a leader in the development of the economy of experimental, the idea that it is possible to test several specific proposals in an environment of laboratory.  
 One of the reasons that the economy is a very difficult subject, and why there is so much conflict between economists, is the fact that these may not carry out experiments controlled.  
 Nature provides us with natural experiments, but in almost all the circumstances so many things change so quickly that is often difficult to fathom what caused what thing.  
 In principle, in a laboratory can carry out experiments controlled and, therefore, to make inferencias more reliable.  
 The critics of the economy were concerned that the experimental subjects will lead to situations of pilot ways of thinking which have occurred outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not so clear and that the inferencias not as defined in the natural sciences.  
 However, the economic experiments provide prospects for a number of important issues, such as the better design of auctions.  
 What is most important, the irrationality of the participants in the market, which was the focus of the work, and has been checked again in contexts of laboratory.  
 Among the results more fun that have emerged from the economy of experimental are those relating to the altruísmo and the selfishness.  
 It seems that (at least in situations of experimental) the subjects of the experiments are not so self-serving as I have raised the economists in its hypothesis, except in the case of a Group: the economists themselves.  
 Does it is due to the fact that the economy and discipline is appealing to people who are more selfish by nature, or to the economy of helping to shape the individuals, making them more selfish?  
 Almost with certainty the answer is a little both things.  
 Probably, the future of experimental research will help to resolve the question about the relative importance of these two scenarios.  
 The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to look to the people and the economy such as they are, as we want to be.  
 Only if we understand better the real hope of human behaviour will be able to draw up policies that make our economies work better too.  
 The bad faith of the energy policy.  
 In one of the most surrealistic sessions of the world economic forum in Davos, this year, the experts of the oil industry explained how the derretimiento of the polar icecap - which is occurring quicker than anyone had previsto- represents not only a problem, but also an opportunity: can now to facilitate access to vast quantities of oil.  
 Similarly, these experts, granted that the fact that the United States has not signed the Convention of the sea, the international Treaty which determines who has access to the oil from the overseas territories and other rights of minerals at sea, presents a risk of international conflict.  
 But we also point to the side advantageous: the oil industry, in its relentless pursuit of more reservations, do not need to ask the Convention to which I take the right to plundering Alaska.  
 The President George W. Bush has a remarkable ability not to see the message of the elderly.  
 For years, it has become increasingly clear that its energy policy is quite misguided.  
 Following the dictates of the oil industry, including Members of his own Party referred to a law which previous energy as a "no" left to lobby dissatisfied.  
 At the time that praises the virtues of the free market, has not done more to give huge stipends to the energy industry, even in times of that the country faces very high deficits.  
 There is a flaw in the market in relation to energy, but the intervention of the government should go in precisely the opposite direction to that proposed by the Bush administration.  
 The fact that the Americans did not pay all the price of pollution resulting from its spender use of energy - especially the huge amounts of gases which cause the effect their means that this is subvaluada, which in turn supports an excessive consumption.  
 The government must stimulate the maintenance, and to intervene in the system of prices through taxes to the energía- is an efficient way of doing so.  
 However, instead of encouraging the maintenance, has promoted a policy of "disposed to the United States first", left to us more dependent on the outside of oil in the future.  
 No matter which the high demand does to increase the price of oil, creating a barrage of money for many of the actors in the Middle East which are not just friends of the United States.  
 Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, appears to have been Finally to the reality of the increased dependence of us; with the enormous increase in oil prices, it is difficult not to note the consequences.  
 However, almost all the tentative safety measures of their administration will exacerbate things in the immediate future.  
 Bush still refuses to make any thing in relation to the maintenance, and has supported with very little money its constant song that technology is what we have to save.  
 So, what are we to think of their recent declaration of a commitment to make us is a 50% less dependent on oil from the Middle East in 25 years?  
 For the investors, the message is clear: we do not invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the most cheap source of oil.  
 However, without new investments for the development of reserves in the Middle East, the growth debocado consumption of energy in the United States, China and the rest of the world implies that the pace of the demand exceeded the proposal.  
 As if that were not enough, the threat of applying sanctions against Iran poses the risk that such interruptions in the supply of one of the major producers in the world.  
 In just that the production of oil in the world are about to their full capacity and the prices are already more than double the level of prior to the war in Iraq, the future of Europe and it is obvious even greater profits for the oil industry, the only winner clear political statement on the Middle East.  
 It is clear that it should not accuse the, at least, and Finally, have recognised that there is a problem.  
 But, as always, a more detailed look at what that aims to suggest further trick of power on the part of its administration.  
 In addition to refuse to recognise the importance of the global warming, stimulate the maintenance or spend sufficient funds to research to make a real difference, the grandiose promise objective of achieving a reduction of dependence on oil from the Middle East means less than it appears.  
 Since that only 20% of oil used on us arising from the Middle East, its goal can be achieved with a modest instead of getting this appeal from other sources.  
 However - one could pensar- without doubt that the Bush administration is taken account of the oil is traded in a global market.  
 Even if the United States were 100% independent of oil from the Middle East, a reduction in the supply of coming from this region would have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.  
 As it is very often with the Bush administration, the explanation of the official policy is not very rosy.  
 What is the playing to make policy to refine the feeling anti-árabe and anti-iraní on us?  
 Or is just another example of incompetence and disorder?  
 By what we have seen in the last five years, the correct response probably contains more than anything of bad faith and sheer incompetence.  
 The roadmap of China  
 China is on the point of adopting its eleventh five-year plan, setting the stage for the continuation of probably the most notable economic transformation of history, while improving the material situation of almost a quarter of the world's population.  
 Never before the world had seen a growth so held; never before has there been such a level of reduction of poverty.  
 Part of the protracted, China has been its combination of almost one of pragmatism and vision.  
 While most of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington consensus, it has embarked on a quijotesca crusade by a major pgb, once more, China has made it clear that the prospects for sustentables increases and more equitable in standards of living.  
 China is taken account of that has entered into a phase of economic development that is leading to huge down and insostenibles- requirements on the environment.  
 Unless there is a change of direction, the standards of living will end up being affected.  
 For this reason, the new plan of five years lays great emphasis on the environment.  
 Several of the most backward areas of China have been growing at a rate which would prodigious, if it were not for the fact that some parts of the country are growing even faster.  
 Although it has reduced poverty, inequality has increased, with ever greater disparities between rural and urban areas, and between coastal areas and the Interior.  
 The development of the world Bank report this year explains why the inequality - and not only poverty should be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China, it is the problem of front.  
 For several years, the government has spoken of a more harmonious society, and the plan describes ambitious programmes in order to achieve this.  
 Moreover, China that it recognises that part of the least developed countries of the developed countries is not just a breakthrough in income, but also a breakthrough in the knowledge.  
 So that we have designed a bold should not only to reduce it, but also to create a basis for innovation independent.  
 The role of China in the world and in the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects.  
 Its future growth will be based more on internal demand that in exports, which will require an increase in consumption.  
 In fact, China has a problem of little in common: a level of saving excessive.  
 The people saves in part due to the weakness of the programmes of the social security of the government; the strengthening of the social security (pensions) and the public health simultaneously reduced social inequalities, increase the feeling of the welfare of the citizens and to promote the consumption.  
 If we are successful (and even now China has exceeded even their own expectations, these adjustments can mean huge pressure on a global economic system that is already weighted due to the huge fiscal imbalances and business us.  
 If China saves less pollution and if, as we have announced their authorities, seeking to carry out a more diversified policy of investment of their reservas-, who will finance the more of us $2 billion a day of trade deficit of us?  
 This is a matter for another occasion, but can that that day is not very far.  
 With a vision that is clear about the future, the challenge will be implementarla.  
 China is a great country, and I could not have achieved the success that has been without a decentralisation.  
 But the descentralizaciones raise its own problems.  
 For example, the greenhouse gases are global problems.  
 While the United States says that we cannot afford to do anything about this, the high authority of China have acted more responsible manner.  
 In the month after the adoption of the plan, was imposed new environmental taxes on cars, petrol and forest products. China was based on the market mechanisms to tackle the problems of their environmental and understood.  
 However, the pressure on the authorities of the local governments to creating economic growth and jobs will be enormous.  
 They will be very tempted to argue that if the United States cannot bring in a way that protects the planet, how could make them?  
 To translate its vision of actions, the Chinese government will need to sound policies, such as environmental taxes that has just been decided.  
 The move towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems that have affected repeatedly to the least-developed countries: private interests that disguised their arguments self-serving behind a veil of the ideology of the market.  
 Some would argue in favour of the economy of the chorreo: we do not concern ourselves for the poor, since, everyone will benefit from the growth.  
 And some will oppose the policies on competition and to the existence of sound laws on the opinion of the corporations: Let us act of the law of the survival darwiniana.  
 There will be focused on the grounds of growth to object to the existence of social policies and means of sound environmental: for example, say that "if climbing the taxes on petrol, that will mean the stifling of our emerging automotive industry".  
 These so-called policies pro-crecimiento not only does not create, but which may threaten the vision of the future of China.  
 There is only one way to avoid: an open debate of the economic policies, with the aim of putting the discovered the fallacies and give room for creative solutions to the many challenges faced by China today.  
 George W. Bush has shown the dangers of an excessive secrecy and limit the taking of decisions to close the circle of followers.  
 The majority of the people out of China does not appreciate what degree of their leaders, in contrast, have been involved in lengthy deliberations and broad consultations (including with foreigners) in its efforts to solve the huge problems that they face.  
 The economies of the market is not regulated by themselves.  
 Cannot simply leave on automatic pilot, particularly if one wants to ensure that all enjoy the benefits.  
 However, it is not easy to administer a market economy.  
 As a juggler, it must respond constantly to balance economic changes.  
 The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that answer.  
 The world looks with amazement and hope to measure the lives of 1.3 billion people continue to halting.  
 The lessons of democracy on the democracy  
 Seems appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, which the world is debating the nature of democracy to two hundred years the birth of Alexis of democracy.  
 That is deservedly celebrated by rejecting the nostalgia reactionary and consider the triumph of democracy as our destiny, whereas warned of the dangers of democracy for freedom.  
 Should we continue to sharing their concerns?  
 That concebía democracy not just as a political regime but, above all, as an intellectual regime which gives way to the customs of society in general, and in that way I gave a psychological and sociological dimension.  
 Although argued that the democratic regimes governing our thoughts, wishes and passions.  
 Just as there was a man renacentista and, in the twentieth century, a homosexual, "the democratic" is a variety of the human being.  
 For that, the systemic effects of democracy could lead to the citizens to be deprived of its thinking rationally.  
 Nothing could pretend which the events and the values for themselves; in fact, merely copiaban opinions toscas and simplified the masses.  
 In effect, what are called the dominion of the 'social' power on the opinion is probably stronger in the democratic regimes -punto view that predicted growth of demagoguery in the modern age and the manipulation of the media.  
 The thought that this trend were not effective constraints of long term.  
 Neither the democracies, nor the small local societies, or the checks and balances, or civil rights can prevent the decline of the critical thinking that democracy appears to cause.  
 The schools have the power to be slightly more than enclaves in the Middle of the strength of the corrosive influences or on the functioning of the mind.  
 In the same way, if we are going to seek the virtue as it did in the old or have a religious beliefs on some occasions could raise the soul, also entered into conflict with the democratic ideal if prescribía officially in public life.  
 In this sense, the heirs intellectuals of are included in the theoretical neomarxistas of school of Frankfurt, so as to Hannah Arendt. all they feared above all to the disintegration of the right in modern societies.  
 In effect, the French philosopher a intituló a book recent democracy against itself.  
 The democratic way of life, as they argue these writers, tends to destroy the original thinking and to abolish the "high" culture, that as a result of a mediocrity that makes the citizens vulnerable to the enemies of democracy.  
 But, while the history is full of murderous regimes alabados by masses intimidated and misled, the great risk for the democratic countries is that their citizens fall in the apathy and in view of the short term for the sake of satisfaction,.  
 The past - despite the ritual, seeking to commemorate the históricos- is obliterated due to the mania for new and recent.  
 Indeed, the ruling class allegedly well educated is subject to this delight.  
 The major problem of the mind democratic is its lack of historical awareness.  
 Does the shortcomings of democracy, to really mean, as argued that, that the pessimism resigned is the only way -realista but insostenible-?  
 I do not think so.  
 There are ways of fighting against what might be called the increased "stupidity democratic" today.  
 The first defence is to press for an education system that we really must minds criticisms, namely, by means of the matters neglected in great measure (currently) of the literature, history and the philosophy.  
 If we want to shape the citizens informed and criticism that democracy needs, our schools should fail to abide by the unwelcome temporary more recent and begin to improve analytical capabilities of the students.  
 The biggest obstacle to that education is the mass media communication, with its tendency to cultivate the superficiality and enjoyment.  
 Many people currently happening more time of his life seeing the television that in the maritime kind.  
 The passivity which measures the media is the exact opposite of the active participation of the democratic citizens need.  
 But it is difficult to imagine that the mass media communication (with the exception of the newspapers quality) turn, by its own willingness, in instruments of an education which strengthens the capabilities criticisms of the citizens.  
 This concern about the mass media communication is not mere contempt elitist towards the popular culture.  
 The issue is not just of popular - after all, was was unpopular in their times and the works teatrales of Shakespeare atraían both to the poor and even but the rejection of the culture of massive challenge and to bring about.  
 The result of that failure is a widespread indifference and a part of the public.  
 Indeed, for a long time has been in a globalized boom and the means that it is unable to create the capacity of the critical thinking or creating feelings raised.  
 It is a culture which, due to their inadvertently, threatens the democratic freedom because we cannot create any sense of duty - the people, to the history, to the Community.  
 What is very late to do something about a culture which then both the spirit?  
 That despreciaba to the essence of her time by its complacency towards the strength of uprooting of massive democracy.  
 Perhaps it will also help the short-sightedness of our leaders as an agent of its prediction worrying?  
 A Europe for all  
 Today, Members who belong to the European Union seem to doubt the future of the same, but in Ukraine the see with hope and admiration.  
 Connect the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, since that Ukraine has discovered that a nation is not an end but a start.  
 In effect, the European unity is indivisible: as a nation is ostracised, none of them is free.  
 We Europeans are an indispensable part of a network, closely interconnected in a single fabric that represents our fate.  
 Every aspect of our common culture, when the last century of suffering shared, confirms this.  
 Everything which affects a European, affects us all indirectly.  
 Never again cannot afford to live with a narrow concept of two Europes, privileged and dispossessed, known and forasteros.  
 Anyone who live within the European continent can (or indeed must) to be considered outside its Union.  
 It depends on the great Europa and prosperity pan-European today.  
 Of course, some people there are Murmurs from that Ukraine is not Europe.  
 That come to Kiev and talk to the people, both young and, with the workers of the factories, farmers' wives, the lawyers, doctors and teachers who have settled in the street, bearing during the cold and snow the winter to defend their freedoms.  
 Do you not are United by a link with those who were at the side of general de Gaulle in the French resistance?  
 It does not lie with those who died fighting for the Spanish Republic in 30 years, with those who liberated Budapest in 1956, and with those who put an end to the fascism in Spain and Portugal in the 1970s?  
 Measures are not driven by the same spirit which gave forces of the solidarity movement in Poland and in the Pacific masses that conducted the velvet revolution of Prague in 1989?  
 That is the true European spirit, and no doubt can overturn it.  
 To those who say that Ukraine is too late as for belonging to the EU, I say, too, that come to my country and see to the mothers who remain of night in their places of work teach their children to use their computers.  
 That come to see the lessons of languages in every town and city where young people are preparing for Europe, typically French, German and English.  
 Those who have doubts about the European vocation of Ukraine must understand that Europe is not a subject of more and superautopistas; it is the inextinguible desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.  
 I believe that our future is as promising as well is the past in Europe, and that our destiny is not to be a forgotten country of a region in cross-border problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and the unity of Europe.  
 The self-determination no longer mean isolation, for achieving the independence of national today means only back at the world stage with a new status.  
 The new Nations can create with its former occupiers the same type of relationship fruitful that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.  
 This is the kind of relationship that my government looks with Russia, and achieve it is the way in which we can extend the area of peace in Europe.  
 Of course, it is premature to make another thing that point out the great interest with which we see the prospect of membership of the EU.  
 We know that our part in that great building will not be built overnight.  
 We know that the great works of European unification does not lie in documents or statements, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and to guarantee the safety of all Europeans.  
 Building a Ukraine worthy of being a Member of the EU, it will not be easy, cheaper or fast.  
 However, as the EU itself, is a company that was achieved.  
 We know that the challenge is large, but the Prize worth the effort, and Europe must know that this is our goal.  
 Part of the task of renewing Ukraine is a battle creative in order to put an end to a century of nightmare in the fascism and Communism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, have fought for the total power.  
 Only a few months ago, in the cities of all Ukraine, our children and their parents with armed troops, to dogs threatening, or even to death.  
 Only a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze, to try to inform the public about the corruption of the old regime, was tortured and beheaded by his henchmen.  
 However, our Orange revolution of the winter showed that the people of Ukraine prevailed.  
 So, despite the doubts and difficulties of today, I am an unshakeable faith in Europe.  
 I rehúso to accept the unease as final answer to the ambiguities and the horrors of the history of Ukraine.  
 I rehúso to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically linked to the opaque midnight of the legacy of the Communist regime which will never be able to see the dawn of peace and of truly European unity.  
 When the citizens of the EU to consider the place of Ukraine in Europe, must see the once more and more about what there is to that view.  
 Should see beyond the devastated moorlands that left the Communism, over and above the poverty and beyond social divisions, through which our former governing, today left aside, intended to extend its misrule.  
 Instead of this, they should look closely the face of our President, Viktor Yushchenko, distorted by the poison during the election campaign last year and to recall the words of the great French are those, for whom 'the most beautiful are those that have been wounded ".  
 The civil war of the.  
 What is today the division between Shiites and Sunnis in the Middle East more deep that the antagonism between Israel and the Arab countries?  
 It might be thought that, given the response of some governments Arabs in the decision of Hezbollah attack Israel.  
 Even in the Israeli bombs raining over Beirut and shot, Saudi Arabia, perhaps the most Conservative Muslim Arab country of all, openly condemned the actions of Hezbollah, which is an organisation shií, instigate the conflict with Israel.  
 Never before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict a State is considered to be the leader of the peoples of the Arabs had supported on Israel so openly.  
 Moreover, the fall apart from Saudi Arabia with Hezbollah is not something isolated.  
 Egypt and Jordan have also condemned categorically to Hezbollah and its leader, Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, by its lack of responsibility.  
 What is behind this surprising attitude?  
 What we are now seeing a fundamental change in the relationship between the nationalism of Arab and Islamic partisan?  
 What is Saudi Arabia more concerned and afraid of Islam Shia that committed with the Arab unit and the Palestinian cause?  
 The allegations of the Arabs against Hezbollah suggest that the division between the sectarian Muslims, are already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, is moving forward and make more active in the Middle East.  
 The desire of President George W. Bush remecer the by societies in the Arab world was intended to raise the forces of the modernisation against the elements of the traditional Arab and Islamic societies.  
 Instead, seems to be triggered the most atavistic forces in the region.  
 Open this Pandora's box can be given to start a new and more bitter was widespread violence, which perhaps only can be called a 'war against Muslim ".  
 The division between Shiites and Sunnis has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical isolation and ethnic Arab not from Iran Shia, along with the dominion of the Arab countries, Shiites, Sunnis on its minorities in great measure held this rivalry in second place.  
 These tensions retrocedieron even more with the tide Islamist created by the Iranian revolution, since after her identity Arab sectarian lost even more weight to measure that appeared to be a identification 'Islamic'.  
 All that changed as terrorist, a terrorist force Sunni based strongly in the ideology of the wahabíes sauditas and its people, launched their attacks on the United States in September 2001.  
 Now had an arm and specifically the Sunni Islam.  
 When the United States gave were to their wars against the Taliban Sunnis in Afghanistan and the Sunni, this new regime of the current Sunni - was strengthened still further.  
 The Sunni Arabs in the region, with its new impetus, perceive that Israel and the West are only one of the threats, while the other is the so called 'increased Shia ", the European soil that extends from Lebanon to Iran, passing by Syria and Iraq, inhabited by the allegedly heretical Shiites.  
 The rulers of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the most sacred sites of the Muslim faith in the post and Medina, so again are more inclined to feel this threat.  
 In the eyes of the Sunni, Shia not only to dominate the peripheral areas in oil from Iran, Iraq and the Eastern region of Saudi Arabia, but that, through the actions of hizbulah- are trying to usurp the role of "protectors' dream of all the Arab countries, the Palestinian cause.  
 The UK Arabia has gone against Hezbollah is due to the fact that the Royal family Arabia derives its legitimacy from a strict form of Sunni Islam and no doubt the loyalty of its population Shia.  
 Ironically, the United States, the traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, is who has made possible the strengthening of the Shiites, overturn Saddam Hussein and lead to the parties Shiites in power in Iraq.  
 The Bush administration seems to recognise what has done; when the growing of Shia Muslim in the East of the Arab world, us seeks to strengthen the protection of European Sunni (Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia) in the West of the region.  
 Israel, otherwise the implacable enemy of the cause of Arab, now seems to have been made to this framework defensive.  
 However, a defensive stance with these characteristics is intended to be unstable, due to the feelings panárabes.  
 Today, the citizens sauditas ordinary following the events in Gaza and the South Lebanon across the Gaza and other networks of satellite TV.  
 That is a view derrama Arab (not Shia), and that only hizbolah responds to the attacks.  
 In their eyes, hizbolah has become a model of heroic resistance.  
 It is that the State of Arabia to deepen the rift between Sunnis and Shiites.  
 In the wake of the allegations officers from the UK against Hezbollah, the State of Arabia called their clerics wahabíes officers to issue fatuas condemning to hazbolah as an organisation of herejes and cismáticos Shiites.  
 This kind of sentences cannot do more than exacerbate divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.  
 As we move further antagonisms, these measures will believe the Sunni regimes which need its own Hezbollah in its corner of the world?  
 If we come to this conclusion, do not have to look far, since those militia have already been trained... by Al-Qaeda.  
 Georgia in the mind of Europe  
 The era in which Europe could rely on us to make war, to achieve peace and to create democracy in its own back yard ended.  
 As I demonstrated recently, the crisis of the Russian gas, with the enlargement of the EU's own backyard now includes not only to Ukraine, but also to Georgia.  
 In fact, as Ukraine, Georgia faces a test to its democracy that Europe cannot afford to ignore.  
 Georgia was the first country post-soviético in starting a "revolution 'of colours and to demonstrate, with dignity and maturity, the option of its people by the democracy and European values.  
 The flags of the European Union that since then we have ondeado in all public buildings in Georgia are a sign of that accession natural and as old as the history of a country to the ancient Greeks was an integral part of the world.  
 Medea Prometheus, the Amazon and, in the neighbouring Armenia, Noah's Ark... the Europe of our myths starts here.  
 With its history, its culture and its traditions (including its critical, independent and even unruly in the former Soviet Union), Georgia seem an ideal candidate for a successful democratisation.  
 For this reason, it is much more worrying than it is zozobrando.  
 All seemed to have started it sufficiently well.  
 There was no resistance to the political reforms, the privatisations, the anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders do not manchados with arrangements with the former regime, and the implementation of a European foreign policy.  
 However, since then has reaparecido totalitarian leaders in a mentality which, on the pretext of represent the will of the majority, are appropriate of more and more power.  
 As the spectre of the ancient Greeks, the political elite of Georgia seems not to end never die and revival.  
 The same people and methods of government tried to defeat the rose revolution 'of November 2003 have reaparecido at the centre of power, through the use of its network of relations, which spread beyond the limits of the country, as well as their tremendous wealth and its rather afinadas skills of manipulation and intrigued by policy.  
 All this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which is not merely in ballot box of voting, but on the separation of powers.  
 The government of interfering in the Affairs of Parliament, which, in turn, is trying to control the executive - that in my case included the appointment of Ambassador and their everyday rutinas!  
 Finally, and what is even more serious, the judiciary is not independent, which undermine the rule of law and prevent the private investment, both are needed.  
 The democracy of Georgia exists on its head, but not yet in his body: the citizens are still contempt of the policy as a dirty business, abandonándola to those who have retired should long ago.  
 Nevertheless, the hope of democracy is strongly rooted in the people, the civic organisations and the media.  
 Now is the time for Europe to ensure that this hope was not die out.  
 The United States has already done everything that has been able to support the political stability in Georgia, since its independence.  
 There is no doubt that stability is not always amounted to democracy for the government of son-in-law, the former Minister of foreign Affairs of the former Soviet Union which was brought to power over the rose revolution.  
 However, the Americans invested generously to uphold the survival of the ideas and democratic leaders.  
 Although the foundation backed by the financista George Soros not manufactured the rose revolution, as the Russian nationalist, certainly nutrió, stimulated and supported the preconditions of democracy.  
 However, in order to help to consolidate its democracy, Georgia now needs the support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to offer.  
 The models of balance of powers, the judiciary and of local democracy must be based on the forms of European, close to the fact that the Georgian models of the type of Anglo-Saxon us.  
 If Europe does not accept this challenge, traicionaría its fundamental duties in a place (small, the Mediterranean, flexible, with ancient historical traditions) where democracy has many more chances of success in Ukraine, which is huge and where we are still in a Soviet mindset, not to mention the Central Asia.  
 In fact, not to support the emerging democracy of Georgia is likely to slow down the progress of democracy in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.  
 Clearly, this increases what is at stake.  
 If Russia has never given up their dreams and instruments of imperial dominance, it was resignando the inevitability of democracy, at least in their profit margins.  
 But this unwilling to accept a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of the famosamente irrational "derzhava": a Russian ethos aggressive glorifying the State and affirm its strength through the oppression of the weakest.  
 This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis in Russia.  
 It is equally sure that any sign of decline of democracy in Georgia and other States post-soviéticos not do more to give impetus to the ambitions of the Russian neoimperiales.  
 It is the responsibility of Europe to convince Russia that there is no hope of a return to the past.  
 Europe must take on this role not only to ensure the independence of its energy supply, but also to show that the European values of freedom, democracy and justice between the peoples have a real force.  
 To achieve this, it must equip itself with the necessary instruments: a half-open foundation for further to Europe and to support the political reforms, a university to shape the future executives of the emerging democracies, a police force and a set of judges and magistrates to give life to the models that we wish to follow.  
 Above all, Europe needs conviction.  
 If the Europe of today can be persuaded to have a vital interest in the future of its neighbours, who is going to believe tomorrow in Europe?  
