The divided racial House of Europe
A common feature of the extreme right in Europe is its racism and the use of the issue of immigration as a political force.
Lega Nord in Italy, the Vlaams Blok of Holland, those in favour of the National Front of Mr Le Pen in France, are examples of parties and movements formed from the issue of the common averse to immigrants and the promotion of simplistic policies to control them.
Although the individuals as jorg Haidar and Jean Marie Le Pen come and (never too early) go, the question of the career does not disappear from the European policy at all the time.
The more and more elderly people in the House and the open borders, more than ever, involve a racial fragmentation of the European countries.
The main parties of the left, right and centre Centre have faced for a prospectus concealing the land head, refugees vain hopes that the difficulty.
It will not do so, as it shows the racial history of the United States clearly - the USA).
The race relations in the USA have been at the centre of the political debate per decades, and still are, to the point where the racial cracks are as important as the entry, if not more, as the determinants of preferences and political attitudes.
The first step to face the racial policy is to understand the origin and the consequences of racial animosity, even if it means to reveal unpleasant truths.
That is precisely what a large amount of research in the economy, political sociology, psychological and science has done for the USA.
Research shows that the people of a different career trust each other, much less does the objectives are less willing to support the expenditure on welfare, because it is felt that it favours the minorities are the racially divided communities have less efficient governments, more corruption and padrinazgo, more crime and less public goods productive for every dollar of taxes.
That is not to say that the answer is to remove the heterogeneity and create racially homogenous communities, but we need to recognise the reality of such matters to begin to build a strong public policies for the race relations.
Of course, the Americans do not agree on how to do this.
Some support programmes for positive action to give preference to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to the College and the contract to grant public.
These policies are to be regarded as a way to offer repair by past injustices and, more importantly, to create figures model (role models) and to control the waste and perhaps involuntary discrimination.
Others are in the affirmative action and argue that a political blind to the races, together with the profamiliar policies of the free market and values, is what is needed to create work them minorities and to help to maintain the black families united.
The latter is crucial for any policy, because one of the major causes of poverty in the USA is the spread of homes of single parents - in other words, single mothers) in the black Community.
Regardless of what is the correct response, the point is to determine what to do about the races is a dominant theme in the American policy.
Of course, the minorities have made progress on the road to greater integration and economic success.
In the 1950s, the black could not sit down at the front section of buses, today, two of the most important people of the American external policy are black.
Without a doubt, the American politicians of the right to continue using the "racial Charter 'as a specific instrument.
Let us take the case of Patrick Buchanan, the exasistente of Nixon and Reagan that became independent presidential candidate in the last elections.
It published a book which had accepted recently, entitled "the death of the West: how dying populations and immigrant invasion imperil our country and civilisation '(the death of the West: how the dying populations and the invasion of the immigrants endanger our country and civilisation).
But for every book because that is another ten that offers a serious analysis of the racial questions in the USA.
The analysis of policies and the debates on the grounds of race relations are very slow in Europe.
The much these issues are concerned, little openly, in terms of quotas of immigration and border restrictions, not in terms of the social problems, and the opportunities created by a Europe which is more and more mixed racially.
It is necessary to have a clear immigration policy to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.
But that cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico is not the end of the American policy towards the domestic racial problems!
Europe is rich and it is done quickly old does the European, result in a generous programmes of well-being, are no longer prepared to accept "dirty work 'in a, shall we say, agriculture or the industry Skinner.
This means that it is essential to have an increase in immigration.
The EU, however, are so quick to criticise the United States by any failure in its policy on minorities and by any demonstration of racism across the Atlantic.
When I read the European press often receives a superior complex towards the United States as far as the racial issues: they, the Americans have problems with racism does we are immune, except for out of hand neonacistas skinheads and people of the style.
What has happened in the last few weeks, from Paris to Amsterdam, shows that the racial problem in Europe is far more profound and, as in the USA, it originates in the sad fact that relations of education is inherently difficult and confidence and cooperative way do not cross right through the racial lines.
If the main parties in Europe do not invest more seriously in the understanding of the racial tensions in Europe and put to the 'race' as one of its top priorities, people like Mr Le Pen, without a doubt, seeks to fill the gap with their message of hatred.
against the French exceptions
The attention of Europe today is concentrated, with good reason, in the enlargement and the Constitution, which the Member States of the EU are drafting.
But the result of several shown wrangling with the European Commission, will not be less important to determine the fate of the new, enlarged Europe.
France has decided to ignore, on a unilateral basis, the pact for stability and growth, when at predicted deficit far exceeded the limit of 3% of GDP.
The French they like to proclaim the rational rigour of his thought, but when it comes to the deficits, Descartes gives its place at the obfuscation.
France was one of the main criticism of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish Government to reduce its budget surplus, that in this, then was 4% of GDP, as soon as a 0.5%.
Other countries have violated the Stability Pact, but France is, first, that is, with an open attitude of presumptuous challenge.
All of this should sorpender to anyone.
France is simply applying the rules of the EU their innate habit to consider its own culture as an exceptional.
For example, France consistently vetoes reforms to the common agricultural policy in the EU.
As the children even know it, the CAP is fine and completely an unwarranted present for the rich European farmers - paricularmente the French) at the expense of the much-afflicted farmers in developing countries and consumers in the EU.
France is also trying to go back to the old policies to rescue, with money from the taxpayer, non-profit-making private companies on the verge of collapse.
The Commissioner for policies of competence for the EU, Mario Monti, cannot afford to lose this battle: it needs the support of what is in the markets and the equal treatment for all.
Here, the situation is simple.
The French Government intends to rescue Alstom, a company which has developed a series of products of high technology, including the TGV, the French fast train, but which have recently affected.
The French Government maintains that it will never back in its plan to rescue Alstom, a plan with all the reasons dirigistes known: to maintain employment, to protect the investment, and so on.
In addition, as Alstom is a company of high technology, the French Government is relying on the pretext of research and development, saying that they are good for growth.
to rescue Alstom, by means of the nationalisation of the company, of course, is wrong.
The company is made up of various parties, some lucrative, some bankrupt: the obvious thing is to divide it.
The financial aspects, such as the TGV, will find buyers with ease, does the nonproductive sources would have to be closed down.
The money of the French taxpayer would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers who, in subsidies to maintain a non-profit plant life.
It is important that the European Commission does not allow that France will apply special rules on competition policy, as it seems to be doing it with budgetary deficits.
The Commission must ensure that public aid to private companies in France is, as does with subsidies of this type in any other Member State of the EU.
The Commission has already been some success in this area, of which has forced to the German Government is going to cancel the governmental guarantees for the public banks.
Alstom in particular, and France in general, it does not have to be the exception, and they must be masters them.
If the Commission does not act, the EU will still seem more Park of diversions of the French public servants.
France has always taken a leadership role in the foreign policy of the EU, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dominique de Villepin, every time seems more and acts as a Minister of Foreign Affairs of Europe.
At the same time, France is violating fundamental rules of the common economic policy and public aid to private companies.
Perhaps, will lose the European Commission what remains of credibility to end up looking looks like small arrondissement Parisian?
A defeat in the Alstom case would have serious consequences for Europe - and not only as far as competition policy).
The war for oil
For decades, through democratic and Republican administrations, the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: to maintain as stable world prices of oil as it is possible to reduce hydrocarbons are the internal consumption of the less painful way does to reduce dependence on imports wherever possible does and to diversify the sources of imported oil.
In spite of the hearings, none of these objectives has changed under the Bush administration.
Many observers believe that Bush has set a new course, because the invasion of Iraq it is against these objectives.
a significant increase in the Iraqi oil production would probably increase the dependence of the EU to oil, in relation to other energy sources, perhaps because the world oil prices would fall as a response to the increase in the supply.
This in turn would mean an increase in the dependence of the EU on imported oil, particularly in the Middle East.
However, the irony is that the EU put greater control of Iraqi oil sector under the programme 'oil for food' of the UN, in force before the war - in which this organisation, nonsaddam Hussein, to determine the level of sales of Iraqi oil to the outside world), which they will be under democratic Iraq in the future.
If the Bush administration has been looking for stable, secure, diversified and cheap oil sources, quite simply, it could have raised the embargoes against, Libya, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, to allow poured oil.
But the interests of the United States in Iraqi oil was not being driven by the economy or the energy policy.
The Bush administration has recognised that, firstly, the Iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical resource.
who control of Iraqi oil will have control of Iraq.
The power of Saddam was in its control over the second largest oil reserves in the world.
I understood perfectly well what oil to their power.
Given the possibility of the invasion and defeat Saddam, threatened inflaming oil deposits of the country.
A large part of the destruction and the plundering of the oil plants which existed then reflects that everyone understands that to control oil means to control Iraq.
When the EU was planning their invasion, to ensure the oil deposits became a critical priority.
The aim was not to increase the supply or reduce the price for the Americans, but to apply to Saddam in their power and, in the long term, to establish a new and strong Iraqi Government.
The future of Iraq it depends directly on the fate of the production of oil in the country.
However, the whims of oil business, especially in very unstable conditions, do not allow us to see very clearly how the Bush administration will be able to achieve their aims in Iraq in the near future.
The logical is simple.
The EU must use the oil revenue to clear to us taxpayers the burden to finance the regime change in Iraq.
All the reconstruction projects are dependent, in the long term, of Iraq's capacity to export large quantities of oil.
If Iraq does not give oil, President Bush will not be able to fulfil its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and the world community.
Before the invasion, the capacity of Iraqi oil production achieved three million barrels a day.
Iraq will not be able to recover that level during the time needed to establish a new government.
Any increase in production requires the development of the oil deposits, which involves huge investments, a legal and representative government and political stability.
Not even the Bush administration hopes that these conditions are met will soon.
In fact, the political stability is the main condition to increase the production capacity.
The historical evidence of Iran and Kuwait, Russia, and the same Iraq, even say that they are needed on three years since the restoration of political stability so that the capacity increases significantly and maintains a high level.
Iraq need several years to draw up a new Constitution, to establish a legitimate and democratic government, to negotiate the distribution of the oil revenue between the regions, to implement investment laws and to ensure that the economy is attractive for foreigners.
It also needs time to negotiate with the international oil companies and its neighbouring countries, to carry out studies and technical feasibility and to restructure, rehabilitate and explore their oil deposits.
In this way, a timetable for three years, even seems to be optimistic, because it assumes that, during this period, the occupation will come to an end, the Iraqi people will be set up their own democratic government and political stability will be achieved.
It is not necessary to say that the situation can be developed in a different way.
The tensions could continue for years.
In addition, no one would even have to be surprised if the production of oil is completely, under a democratic government.
history suggests that it strikes and other similar events which can interrupt the production of oil are a greater threat in democratic countries in which they are not.
If Iraq cannot rapidly increasing their production capacity in the near future, which will be an obstacle to the foreign policy and the power of the EU.
How will finance the long-term reconstruction of Iraq?
Who will pay to maintain a fragile democracy Iraqi?
Can the EU to maintain their occupation, if they are not able to give attention to the basic food, health and other services to the Iraqi people?
These are difficult issues, and essentially, they will not be taken until a stable and democratic regime in Iraq can control and guarantee a continuous supply of oil exports.
When the murderers dealing with human rights
If it were not so very sad, it would certainly be a joke of the millennium: Libya, it has been decided to chair the committee on human rights of the United Nations.
When calígula mentioned Senator in its horse, animal did not have blood on the hooves at least.
Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the broken presidency every year in a region of the world to another.
This year it was the turn of Africa to appoint the President, and appointed to Libya.
Only the United States and Canada have voted against it.
For its eternal shame, the European countries abstained.
The fact that this decision is in such a sensitive moment for the organisation is indicative of the moral disintegration of the UN.
President Bush has challenged the UN that it shows the seriousness with regard to its own decisions on Iraq are otherwise could have the same ignominious end the League of Nations, which is powerless in the 1930s, when we are faced with the aggressive policies of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy.
to choose to Libya to chair the authority of the UN, responsible for human rights only help to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of the world body.
Let us remember: Libya is a totalitarian regime does its leader, moammar kadafi, combine erratic behaviour with extremist policies, and supporting dictators throughout the world.
It heads, one of the most repressive regimes, where there are at least simulations of any elections and where the dissent is crushed immediately.
Under your government, Libya has supported terrorist organisations throughout the world - from the eri to various Palestinian extremist groups).
It has been following under UN sanctions for his role in the derribamiento of a flight of Pan Am in Lockerbie, Scotland, for ten years.
Over the last decade, the position of the United Nations as a symbol of the ideals of a peaceful world has been eroded.
It was totally unable to stop the war in the Balkans, and in at least one case (Srebrenica), a Dutch peace force of the UN stood as a simple spectator of the worst massacre in Europe after 1945 when the Bosnian Serbs murdered on 6.000 defenceless Muslim men.
A Dutch investigating Commission admitted later that the Dutch group of the UN was, in fact, an accessory of that war crime.
When the genocide in Rwanda, started, the official of the United Nations, which is responsible for the peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the country of the forces of the organisation, with which it left the field open for the bloodier genocidal massacre since the Second World War.
The name of the official is Kofi Annan.
It is a depressing and pathetic dossier that the UN is trying - probably in vain) to redeem when they appeared in the Iraq crisis, such as the voice of reason and the international legitimacy.
But at a time in which to the UN inspections in Iraq appears as being sent to the Salvation Army to remove a band of gangsters, to increase to Libya to the Presidency of the Commission on Human Rights, we could go down in history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose lives began with so many hopes.
The organisations do not sulen to die, and it is very raison d'Etat to make sure that the UN is moving forward, although it is limping along.
But it will be as soon as a shadow of what should and could be.
Today, the hypocrisy is a mark of the UN.
The doors authoritarian
Last Thursday, the judges of the central court in Jakarta, Indonesia, sentenced to one year's imprisonment.
As a publisher in front of the tempo weekly newsmagazine, I am guilty, according to the Court, to defame an enterprise tycoon called tomy winata to insinuate its possible participation in a fire in the textile market of South-East Asia in Jakarta and promote disturbances spread lies.
This will be the case, and so forth, mean the end of another democratic experiment of short duration in Indonesia?
The "disturbances' which I supposedly promoted occurred in March of last year, when almost two hundred crooks who said to be one of winata, attacked the offices of tempo, threatened burning the building, harassed the staff and injured a journal.
In order to try to resolve the situation in a peaceful manner, they convinced me to negotiate in the central station of police in Jakarta, but I discovered, for my horror, which was in the hands of the leaders of peat.
It struck me and kicked to me while the police closed their eyes.
Fortunately, many journalists were to rescue with recorders and the strongly-held cameras.
their emissions protests that forced our Parliament to organise a public hearing.
The heads of the national police forces and Jakarta have convened and, under a huge popular pressure, the leaders of peat were accused of criminal law.
But winata was stolen police investigation stating in public, quite simply, that their supporters would have acted without it knew and without their consent.
We then informed / displayed their own criminal charges, against Ahmad taufik, who wrote the rule of teuku iskandar Ali, published in it, and myself.
The judicial procedure which lasted a year was fraught with a number of suspected events, all in favour of winata.
First, the case that they made / displayed the police and prosecution service of the State contained documents that had been falsified so obvious that the police accused two officials.
But the Court rejected our request to delay the process until the legality of the case of the State could be clarified.
The case against the officers involved seems not to be made.
On the contrary, one of them was promoted to direct the recently established (with funds from the EU) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.
On the other, it says that it was sent to the police academy for personnel to be advanced training.
Later, during the sixth month of the process, the President of the panel composed of three judges are suddenly to be promoted to head the court from one city at a time of Jakarta.
One of my lawyers said in his 35 years of experience in the courts I have never seen that they replaced a magistrate President during a trial in progress.
In fact, in spite of its rise, the judge still taking another case in the same place.
A judge who previously had pronounced judgement against tempo in civil demand of winata held its position.
Finally, when winata given the evidence, it made perjury by denying that tempo was interviewed.
A recording of the telephone interview in the Court reproduced the journal which made the interview and two publishers who were present at gave it sworn evidence, the official record of the telephone company appeared as it shows the so-called and an expert concluded that the voice of the recording was tomy winata.
But the judges denied the request of tempo to arrest and prosecute winata by perjury, and they said that we gave us a warning to the police, which is what we did.
Then the judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the Court of Justice in the case of perjury against winata was resolved.
Given the very flawed process, my judgment and my judgment, it is not surprising.
But I still have hope that we will succeed in the end, when the supreme courts deal with the appeal made / displayed by tempo.
The courts of Indonesia are cleaner and more emissions is their hierarchy, and the President of the Supreme Court is a powerful defender of democracy and freedom of press. the tempo could become a victory that marks a milestone in our democracy Sullivan, as it was the decision of the Supreme Court of the EU in the case of the New York Times V.
By doing more difficult the accusations of slander, that is a decision that guarantees that the American journalists can lead to the civil servants accountable.
No country knows better than Indonesia than the freedom of expression and a free press indicators is proven by the democratic development and to deal with the criminal journalists, as it is the first sign of authoritarianism.
Indonesia was a liberal democracy in the 1950s, with President Sukarno, with the support of the military, began to suppress the press in 1956.
With the voices silenced criticism, to consolidate a power without limit was easier and in 1959 July Sukarno was declared the principle of the 'guided democracy'.
During the first years after the fall of Sukarno in 1966, all the advantages of genuine democracy restored, including the freedom of the press - except for the Communists).
But the regime of President Suharto initiated a new repression against the press at the beginning of the seventies, and in the end it banned various means and imprisoned many journalists.
With the press under control, other political rights quickly were restricted and democracy in Indonesia were to fail.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world, and the biggest Muslim democratic community of history.
There have been two parliamentary elections and two direct presidential elections - including the last battle presidential-that have been opened, fair and peaceful, which shows that Islam and democracy can coexist.
However, the enemies of democracy never rest.
radical Islamic groups participated in indiscriminate attacks, while groups with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the inner circle of President Megawati.
But Mrs Megawati has just been defeated in her attempt of re-election.
Perhaps recently elected President susilo will continue accusing the journalists?
Perhaps my judgement and the judgments and decisions of other journalists, will draw the beginning of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia that both labour cost?
The answer is in the support that the activists in favour of democracy in the country are able to generate internally and at international level.
to lose Indonesia - a potential light of hope for all those fighting for democracy of the Muslim community world-wide-would be a terrible disaster.
the morality of the death penalty
It is often criticise the United States to refuse to abolish the death penalty.
Many say at the moment that the abolition of the death penalty is a pre-condition of a civilised criminal legal system.
The Nobel Prize Gary Becker does not agree.
The European governments are firmly opposed to the death penalty -- the European Union forbids it completely -- and some European consider that its use in the United States is inhumane.
In fact, many European intellectuals maintain that it is not only the death penalty but the sentences in general does not deter the criminals.
But while the European, with levels of crime well below the Americans during the last, could relatively ourselves the luxury of being 'soft' with most of the crimes, they have seen a sharp increase in the levels of crime in the last twenty years.
However, the American rates have undermined, had to a greater use of penalties in part.
This includes the death penalty.
I support the implementation of some people convicted of murder because -- -- and only because I believe it avoids other murders.
If I do not think that would be opposed to the death penalty, for revenge and any other reason do not have to be the basis of the public policies.
The serious empirical studies on the death penalty in the EU began with a pioneering study of Yitzhak ehrlich published in 1975, with the American economic review.
Some further studies have had much weaker an effective deterrent, while others have established a much stronger.
However, the data available, are quite limited, so that any conclusion is, therefore, not be based solely on the econométricas evidence.
Of course, the public policies in relation to any penalty cannot wait until evidence is perfect.
However, even with the limited quantitative evidence available, there is reason to believe that the death penalty dissuades.
The majority of the people, and the murderers in particular, are they afraid to death, especially when a considerable doubt comes as soon as possible, and after a murder is committed.
As Mr Hume said to Mr when talking about the suicide, "no one rejected his life as long as it was worth living there.
So it is our natural terror to death. 'schopenhauer likewise thought that "as soon as the terrors of life reach the point where they are higher than the terrors of death, a man will put an end to their lives.
But the terrors of death, offer a considerable resistance. '
Those who oppose the death penalty, they often claim that the State does not have the moral right to clear the life to anyone, including the worst of the murderers.
However, it is a conclusion totally wrong to believe that the death penalty dissuades.
In order to do so, we assume that for every executed murderer - instead of the condemned to life imprisonment, for example), the number of murders are reduced by three, which is a figure far below those of ehrlich and other calculations of the deterrent effect.
This means that for every executed murderer three innocent victims would not die.
In fact, the government would be contributing indirectly "clear 'many lives if it did not use the death penalty.
To save three innocent lives for each executed person seems to be a good balance, and even two lives saved by implementing it seems to be a convincing rate of cost / benefit for the death penalty.
However, it is true that the arguments in favour of the death penalty has become less clear, as the number of lives saved for implementation is falling.
However, if only to a life of implementation were actually saved, the option could still be desirable if the saved life is much better than the rounded life, which would normally be the case.
Many people are opposed to compare the quality of the save lives, and no longer life.
However, I do not see how to prevent such a comparison.
Let us take a race criminals who robs a victim and kills who took a decent life and that leaves a number of children and a wife.
Let us make it possible to save the life of an innocent victim when implementing that criminals.
For me, it is obvious that to save the life of the victim must be worth more than to clear the life of the criminals.
Of course, all the cases are not so clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must be part of any sensible social policy.
This aid to explain why the death penalty is only to be used in cases of murder and not of minor offences.
When it comes to choose to clear lives and a, shall we say, to reduce the thieves, the arguments in favour of less severe punishments are much more robust.
Although the severe aggression, including some appalling violations, can approach the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support their use in those cases.
A powerful argument in favour of keeping the death penalty for the murderers is the "marginal deterrent '.
If the aggression was punished with the implementation, the criminals would have an incentive to kill their victims in order to ensure that they found them (what is an important reason why the severity of the sentences must be proportional in general to the severity of the crimes).
a complication is that the death penalty can make the murderer is struggling with greater force to prevent their catches, which could lead to more deaths.
But, although the marginal deterrence is important, I believe that the resistance of to be caught murderers, possibly at the expense of their own lives, really is proof that the criminals are afraid of the death penalty.
Of course, I am concerned about the risk of implementing an innocent.
My support for the death penalty would be weakened considerably if the rate of execution of innocent people were as high as many say.
I believe, however, that the process of appeal in the EU offers an enormous protection, not against both judgments wrong but against illegal executions, so that there are very few cases documented, if it turns out that there are a number of innocent people have been executed.
And this process has increased a great deal with the development of the identification based on the DNA.
Once again, the debate on the death penalty is essentially a debate on the deterrent - which can be reduced by sustained appeals).
I understand that some people are sceptical as regards the evidence, but I think they are wrong so much on that and on the element of common sense of the question.
It is distressing to clear the life for a person, even to a murderer, but sometimes very unpleasant acts are required to prevent behaviour worse than they put an end to the life of innocent victims.
The people versus Putin
I helped to select Vladimir Putin to move to Boris Yeltsin, the first elected Russian President democratically.
Because the structures of the KGB, and the Mafia now govern Russia and manipulate its judicial system, it is assumed that Yeltsin wanted to define who would be its successor to avoid legal prosecutions in the future.
But that we selected Putin we had the task of finding a person to continue the reforms of President Yeltsin, not someone who shielded him and his family.
In fact, Yeltsin did not have any fears and it did not find its own survival, but one of the democratic idea that she introduced in Russia.
However, now that the idea is threatened due to the successor, who was elected.
I do not deny my responsibility to have supported Mr Putin.
We were not close friends, but we are working together in critical situations, and I never hesitated his sincerity.
Putin acts guidance for their convictions.
The problem is that these, including its belief that Russia can only succeed if it is governed by a power originating in a single source, are wrong.
This great mistake is taking to Russia to the political ruin.
Of course, no one who occupies a senior position will make mistakes, including some key ones, and this is particularly true in stormy periods.
Mr Yeltsin was not an exception, but it recognized them.
For example, when this was withdrawn on New Year's Eve of 1999 apologised to have started the war in Chechnya.
In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognise and acknowledge its mistakes, and there is still a great deal in the implementation of a policy for its failure is obvious to everyone.
One of the mistakes of Yeltsin was not to be at the top of the list set priorities moral of its programme of reforms.
Russia must have regretted of Stalinism and the system gulags of areas of forced labour.
The whole nation, without exception, must be regretted, as the Germans have done since 1945.
This omission is important, because it allowed the little the good faith of Putin in a central authority lead to recapture the rule on the part of the security services.
In fact, a direct result of the national apology for the age gulags should have been the question of the Communist Party and the dismissive of those who had worked in the KGB to exercise political positions.
Although these political filters are a complex issue in post-communist societies, where both the victimisation and the cooperation is so widespread and the limits between them are so unclear, could have been found to be a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
Not to do nothing left to the unscathed Russian security structures and with the ability to carry out a political return, at the present time has achieved.
The political day of the structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence disenso, once again, has turned to Russia is a country of dissidents.
It is impossible to ignore the politicians and independent media without stifling the independent sources of funding, and for that reason the Kremlin de Putin has focused its efforts in the so called 'oligarcas'.
The arrest and prosecution of Mr jodorkovsky were orchestrated precisely for this reason.
By removing the independent sources of funding, the security services that dominate the Kremlin hope to destroy the independent political life in Russia.
Without independent basis of thought, a fear climate is hold fast.
But the fear not only cheapens: it badly creates the conditions for a government.
Mr Yeltsin understand intuitive one way that fear and centralised and verticalista decision-making were not ways to govern a modern country, and therefore insisted on reforming the relations between the citizens and the state.
Putin still does not include / understand that a centralised political system is so unable to include / understand and to correct mistakes now as it was when the Soviet era.
Putin, that is not a man well mannered, is taking to Russia, with a deep and sincere belief, the same disintegration that happened with the collapse of the Soviet rule.
The people are beginning to realise this.
People see the desire of Putin to create a modern and more effective state cannot be made a reality, as a modern state is governed, not from the top down, but by an informed citizenship which force their governments to recognise and to correct its mistakes.
It also seems to be suspicious of the impotence its regime.
This is one of the reasons why Russia has become so aggressive with its neighbours, the Ukraine and Georgia, and seems to have a military presence in places such as the transdniéster, the separatist region of Moldova.
When sending its weight on its closest neighbours, the Kremlin thinks that it can persuade the Russians of his omnipotence.
Given the emasculated and that is the debate in Russia, and the ability of the Kremlin to manipulate the elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who wish to preserve the democratic idea in the country.
It makes no sense to stay in vain illusion.
Those who are against Putin who must decide what they want, and to say that, if the regime does not comply with the Constitution, they have the right to force them to do so, by any means that are necessary.
At the present time, the question of power in Russia can no longer be decided solely in the ballot box.
As in the Ukraine, the Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
taxation and expenditure in India
too high a level of tax can reduce the incentive and hinder the growth.
But it is too low a level can give the same result.
The governments, with little tax revenue cannot provide basic public services.
Worse still, the lack of tax revenue in the poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in the systems for collecting taxes (more than of the lower tax rates) which also promote the low productivity in companies.
India is a good illustration of the importance of a system of a collection of taxes designed.
In Bangalore, the high technology companies have built facilities for international quality carefully meadows well and communications high-speed networks.
However, outside these installations there are open drainages waste without collecting and streets in terrible state.
While the technology companies instantly pass terrabytes of information to remote continents, the local transport work on an almost medieval rate.
As a result, the companies in Bangalore have their own services of buses, contract without drinking water suppliers and set up generators to protect themselves from the interruption in the electricity supply.
The state cannot set the disaster because it is bankrupt.
The government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenue they are devoted to the payment of interest.
But the debt is not the result of an excessive cost in the past.
The government expenditure of India is around 15% of GDP, compared with an average of around 40% of the GDP in the OECD.
Rather, the financial difficulties of India arise from a tax system badly designed and badly managed.
The charges and the rules for the taxation of personal and corporate income are reasonable under international criteria.
However, the Government of India collects taxes on income which come just at approximately the 3,7% of GDP, more or less half of which receive South Korea and other Asian tigers.
Agriculture in India represents around 25% of GDP, but not even the rich farmers pay taxes.
businesses geared to export refunds in the industry of software and others have fiscal privileges, although their employees do pay taxes you exceed their personal income.
Although the fees are reasonable, tax evasion is widespread.
This is because the government has not invested in terms of staff or systems to detect the tax evasores, which rarely go to prison and often they can offer bribes to get out of the impasse when they manage them to catch.
Of more subtle way, the evasion of "the 'direct taxes on income and profits reflect the chaos in the system of' indirect 'tax on production and consumption.
The tax on consumption represents more than 60% of indirect taxation of India, which is along the same proportion of its total tax revenue.
The basic tax to the consumer pays attention to 16% of the value of the production of a company.
Then there are a number of concessions, exemptions and deposits.
For example, a 'rate of licensing rights' of 8% to categories such as food products, the cricket, the spinnings of cotton and computers is implemented.
In addition, a 'special consumption tax') (IEC of 8% of products is applied to include polyester strands, tyre and cars, air prerequisite.
There is also a "additional tax on consumption '(iac, not to confuse with IEC)" products of particular importance' is used.
The exemptions from the tax on consumption are many and complex, and include companies with total annual income of less than 10 million rupias and companies located in conflict or slow areas.
Overall, the exemptions are divided in 70 of categories, broken down by 299 games, 52 conditions and seven lists, each of which contains a number of articles.
The exemptions invite the abuse.
by an amount of money, it is possible to be convinced of the officials of low level, who have a considerable discretion to implement the conditions in which they make interpretations favourable.
The goods with high charges (for example, polished in part) are sold as goods with lower charges (for example, as a contribution to make without polishing).
The evasion of the tax on consumption is more infectious than the evasion of duties to the entry and profits.
If a company has evaded consumer taxes and tax rate high compared with the margins of earning before taxation of its industry, their competitors must also do so, just to survive.
As the evasion increases, the governments to impose additional 'or' special 'rights' to generate more evasion.
The collection of direct taxes are also affected.
The bribes paid to these reference of excise duty, the difference between the value of the polished contribution to make and without polishing and inaccurate information on the real income creates "black 'funds which cannot be noted in the declarations of taxes.
In addition to affect the ability of the state to provide basic public services, the assets to evade indirect taxation also discourage the companies to take more productive technologies, which require methods with large-scale operations.
But because it is easier to avoid the indirect taxes operating a number of small units, instead of a large one, the economies of scale can be created.
We only have to stress that in the industry of software, where all the units are free of indirect taxes, the Indian companies operate on an efficient level.
India could emulate the example of China, where the rationalisation of indirect taxes in 1994 created the conditions for a great boom?
Or perhaps the governments of coalition of a vigorous democracy are not able to make such a reform?
Last year, the Government of India, led by the BJP, adopted legislation that ordered severe cuts in the budget deficit.
It appointed a special group to make the necessary changes in policies of taxation and expenditure.
In July of this year, the group proposed to increase taxes (rather than by cutting expenditure) by means of, among other things, the elimination of most of the exemptions of indirect taxation.
The new Government of India, led by the party of the Congress also seems to be in favour of these proposals.
If the party of the US Congress and the opposition parties to be specific, it will be a great step forward to maintain economic growth of the country and to dispel the notion that the democracies cannot do what is needed to promote development.
What is wrong with Turkey?
On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most famous writers of Turkey, will be brought before a court in Istanbul to face the accusation "to insult the national identity 'having demonstrated in favour of an open debate on the Turkish genocide of 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and 1916.
Pamuk can face a condemnation of three years in prison.
Turkey's attitude to fine and to send to prison for those who do not follow the line official confirms my opposition to open negotiations on membership as a Member of the European Union.
In December 1999, the European Council to give Turkey the status of member-candidate to the EU, implies that it should accede to the Union in a future and not specified date.
Subsequently, the Council asked the European Commission to if agreed for October 2004 Turkey had satisfied with sufficient political criteria - including democracy, the rule of law and respect for the rights of the ethical minorities for his membresía.
That decision was one of the last of the Commission under Romano Prodi, of which I was a Member.
Their 30 members, 29 said that Turkey had satisfied the criteria sufficiently as progress in the process.
I was the only one to dissenting.
The Commission's report on Turkey, prepared by Günter Verheugen, which at that time was in charge of the enlargement of the EU, expressed my decision.
The document mentioned that, in 2003, the Middle 21,870 they made / displayed applications for asylum in the EU, that 2,127 were accepted.
In other words, the governments of the EU recognised in 2003 that the Turkish government had sought to more than 2 000 of its citizens.
In the meantime, the Commission published a progress report on Turkey, which stated that the reforms are still, although to a lesser pace, under the Government of moderate Islamic Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of direction.
However, the report also raised serious concern: they are the violations of human rights, including the torture does the influence of the military are still too high, does the freedom of speech was not complied with universal way does non-Muslim religious and cultural minorities suffering discrimination does, and there was no clear and firm opposition on the part of the power to violence against women.
There have been many changes since the beginning of the talks on accession to the EU, carried out in October.
beyond the current persecution to Pamuk, unacceptable behaviour abound.
In March of 2005, the police violently dispersed a demonstration which held the International Women's Day.
In May, the largest union of teachers was banned in promoting the education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.
In fact, the intolerance reaches the highest positions of the Turkish Government.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Abdullah Gül, suddenly cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen when he saw a Kurdish journalist, between the public and the Danish refused themselves to expel it.
These actions and attitudes amply justify my disagreement in October in 2004.
However, if they were even exceeded, Turkey should not be permitted in the EU, because it is not a European country.
Christianity, feudalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, democracy and industrialisation have turned to us that we are, as a European, but have not turned to the Turks, what they are.
So I am not convinced that the reforms to be implemented in Turkey at the insistence of the European Commission continue after the country finally falls to the EU.
In fact, I suspect that there will be a step backwards.
Worse still, the accession of Turkey would lead to inevitable way to the Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps one of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Of course, the first three of these countries are more European than Turkey.
Leaving aside the three republics in the Caucasus, but including the states that before in Yugoslavia, the EU would happen to have approximately 35 States.
What kind of Union would be that?
The EU is not simply a club of friends.
It is based on the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.
The Commission, as guardian of the Treaties of the European Union, must protect these four basic freedoms, which means that it must persuade and, if necessary, to force the Member States to change their laws.
The policy of Sweden on alcohol, the law Volkswagen in Germany and the discrimination against foreign investment funds in France are examples of cases that have done unsympathetic to the Commission.
But they are necessary.
For when I left the Commission, I have before me I wrap of 1 500 of these causes for infringement.
Briefly, to become a member of the EU means having to take firm measures which would seriously affect the internal affairs of a state.
It will be impossible to do with very different States.
The EU will become the victim of the historian Paul Kennedy so-called "imperial sobreextension. '
It would be diluted beyond what is acceptable.
For that reason, the former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing feared that entry ended up producing breaks in the EU and the German Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, stated that 'the accession of Turkey would be more than what the EU could support'.
However, the most solid reason to oppose the accession of Turkey is a democracy question: the majority of the population of the EU, it simply does not want it.
The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America
After where you look at it, Bolivia, is not a typical Latin American country.
after Haiti, this is the second poorest nation of Western hemisphere, and is even less stable, with a history marked by more than two hundred coup d'etats since its independence.
In a region with indigenous a final strong, but with a crossed and isolated present, Bolivia, together with Guatemala, perhaps the only country in Latin America, where the indigenous peoples who make up the majority of the population.
their topography and ethnic division are generally autonomous, and indeed they act as separatist forces that threaten the national unity of ways more dangerous than in any other country.
And, of course, the only nation without access to the sea in the subcontinent is together with Paraguay.
So that the present Bolivian crisis to the rest of Latin America would be extremely unwise to transpose.
It is too simplistic to generalise: the institutions in all the other countries are much more solid, poverty - particularly the extreme poverty) is falling and, to a large extent, the battle for the natural resources has been resolved.
Even in countries such as Venezuela, with huge reserves of oil and a government of traditionally nationalist mentality, the status quo which allows the foreign investment in the energy resources has survived almost eight years of government of President Chavez Hugo.
Although the existence of indigenous movement a reality in many countries, in Chiapas to the "araucanía 'and from Amazonia to ayacucho, in any country in Latin America has represented a real threat national integrity.
So that one of Bolivia, it is not a crisis which is calling others in the region, nor the rotten 'theory of dominated', had so much by Lyndon Johnson Che Guevara and by the Bolivian in the event, it seems valid or cautiously reasonable at least.
However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of the 'democratic deficit' which is suffering from Latin America at the present time.
The elected governments have failed, for one reason or another, in Bolivia, Ecuador and Haiti.
Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and it is threatened, for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
None of these cases is identical to the others, as they include varying levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.
The question is, what can be done about this situation, which contrasts greatly with the encouraging prospects that prevailed only a few years ago.
At the last meeting of the Organisation of American States in strong lauderdale, Florida, the United States took a good idea that others have had, and by supporting it, basically, put an end to it.
History began a couple of years ago, when the former Argentine Minister of Foreign Affairs Dante caputo and the programme of the United Nations for development were responsible for outlining the report on democracy in Latin America.
They reached the conclusion that an early warning system of a crisis of democracy in the region would help to generate actions before things were to be out of control, as it is today in Bolivia.
caputo and the team of the UN convinced, then, to Chilean President Ricardo lakes that it took the initiative and promoted between a number of its Members.
I did it, but the matter does not go very far.
In fact, the report by the UNDP on democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, as soon as I mention it.
The United States and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean Mr Miguel insulza, accelerated the plan for the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but it was rejected due to the reasonable Latin American fears that the idea was directed against Venezuela, combined with the anachronistic mistrust of the countries of Latin America, that the sacrosanct principle of non-intervention was violated.
Although the continent could not reach agreement on the underlying principle of the proposal, the idea of an early warning system deserves attention.
At the present time, it is possible that this is not what the hemisférica Community can do with regard to what is happening in Bolivia, but the situation is pregnant risks for all.
Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and the producers of coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although confused, but there is no followers authoritarian wishes?
That is not really can Hugo Chavez financing of moral standards and the other Bolivian dissidents, but Venezuela and Cuba has not had the temptation of interfering in the country where the Che Guevara died trying to create a guerilla war for almost forty years?
The Community of business of the Bolivian region of Santa Cruz could not carry out its threat from the country, but would prefer to share their reserves of oil and gas with the indigenous peoples of the plateau, instead of making it with the Brazilian industrialists of São Paulo?
before the events to arrive at these results, it might be a good idea for the OAS (nonee.uu.) became involved.
The region is to state that participation, with a compromise appropriate message and based on a proper democratic platform, which is different from the traditional American intervention of the traditional Latin American indifference.
The deterioration in France?
The French are extremely sensitive - not to say that they put onto the defensive) as far as the size of their country in the world.
The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, and yet the French are painfully aware that the overall position of the country is no longer what it once was.
It is not surprising, therefore, that during the last presidential elections, the publication of the report of the European Commission, which said that in economic France had moved from the third to the tenth point between European countries in a period of ten years, has caused examinations of conscience and controversies. shortly afterwards, President Jacques Chirac accused his rival, Lionel Jospin, to bring about a "deterioration of France '.
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body in charge of such data, believed that they had put an end to this aspect of the dispute demonstrating that France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom have more or less the same standards of living, per capita.
But the more general debate did not yield.
Again, there was the notes on "the French 'deterioration in the street protests from this year on the reform of the pension system, the growing dispute about fiscal policy, with the European Commission and the argument with the United States on the war in Iraq.
At the moment, the book better sold in France is a controversial work of Nicholas baverez, France qui tombe (France which falls).
The book of baverez is full of appointments of de Gaulle and napoleón.
In accordance with the author of the report, the last great achievements of France given in the 1970s, with the launch of the fast train, the TGV, and to the Airbus.
It is so much Mitterrand and Chirac by its "shared talent to win elections and to make France a failure '.
The success of the paper is in itself a symptom of a kind of "frustration '.
But, in what form?
The degradation evidence that current / show baverez are not as good as it creates.
For example, it points to the industrial job losses in the clearest proof of the deterioration of France.
However, the desindustrialización is common to all the developed countries.
In fact, in France there are doing better than most of its rich rivals and, unlike in Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has maintained the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector which we had at the beginning of the 1970s.
In addition, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, the foreign investment, to France, are doing very well.
According to a recent report by the Council of economic analysis, the direct investment in France grew to reach 60 billion in 2001, almost double that in Germany.
The competitiveness of costs of the country also improved (in 20%) in the last three decades, as a higher productivity has balanced the rapid growth of wages.
However, the crux of the economic problems of long term of France is the fear of loss of industrial use.
France is still a strong industrial power in traditional areas such as the automotive and aerospace industry, but it is falling behind in new markets, where smaller companies spout new technologies.
For example, France only invests 30 billion dollars a year on research and development in high technology, in comparison with 51 billion of Germany, 98 billion 265 billion, Japan and the United States.
In short, the analysis of baverez is a step in the wrong direction.
France has gone through a series of reforms of critical importance over the last two decades: economic and financial liberalisation, removal of controls on prices and the type of change, the end of the restrictions on the credit, reduction of the commercial inflation and deficits, the arrival of the euro and the forced globalisation of companies in the country.
The French frustration has nothing to do with any of them.
The problem with France is that it fails to recognise the new world which is already a part.
The capitalism of the French State has died and France hard to accept his death.
In fact, France has to be the only country in which the Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, is the obligation to apologise to the day after we have said on television that "the state is not all-powerful '.
There are many reasons behind this French schizophrenia, but one of the main ones has to do with the political game of the last 20 years.
As far back as 1981, in France, there was a clear division between left and right.
Since then, the governments of both Mitterrand and Chirac to their ideological positions in order to carry out the difficult process of adjustment, to Europe and globalisation.
A "shock therapy 'in the style of SARS.
Thatcher for two decades could have created a new political awareness, but slow in reaching a consensus to adopt the reforms ensured that the French are living in a world and think of another.
This is one of the main reasons for the political disaster that struck during the last presidential campaign, when the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, reached the second round of the elections,
The rise of the extreme left, who received 10% of the vote in the presidential campaign, is also evidence of political failure.
France needs political revolution, more than an economic one, if it wants to be reconciled with the reality, part of which is that the 'French deterioration' is a fear that the French have created.
The value of the European values
The European leaders have accelerated the constitutional concerns that were suspended in December last, because of a dispute with voting rights.
Of course, these disputes are subject to adjustments, which will probably be achieved.
What it is still necessary to establish a clear understanding that it is seeking to achieve the Constitution.
Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: solidarity and subsidiarity.
The two principles are in the transfer of the philosophy, politics, economics, sociology and the law.
They have been here for years in the legal and institutional framework of the European Union - in the Treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights - which it mentions in his introduction), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.
In short, they are part of the history and the ideals of the EU.
But what really mean solidarity and subsidiarity?
Let us consider the solidarity that is open to at least two interpretations: the static solidarity, which only has to do with the distribution of income and wealth and the wider concept of dynamic solidarity, which also relates to the production of income and wealth.
In the history of the post-war period of European integration, dynamic solidarity both had force in the first period (the European Coal and Steel Community) in its strategy of economic development (reconstruction) and in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.
That does not mean that dynamic solidarity was abolished then: the European Monetary Union, for example, is one of its expressions.
Thus, although some countries do not benefit immediately, with the euro, accepted it in any case because they were convinced that in the long run, this would have a positive impact.
In other words, dynamic solidarity means to promote policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.
However, as indicated by the growth of GDP in the EU, dynamic solidarity has been weakened in the last decade.
The most worrying thing is the delay in research.
The implementation of the so-called Lisbon Strategy, which the EU made in 2000, and what it promised to create the most competitive economy in the world, is threatened by an increasing emphasis on the static solidarity, which is reflected in the high costs of social security and on the high taxes which are needed to finance it.
the predominance of static solidarity must be an ageing population, which, combined with a slower growth, has generated fiscal imbalances structural.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of targeted static solidarity towards more people on the dynamic solidarity that will benefit young people.
After all, the European Union cannot allow the consumption continues to overcome the investment necessary to guarantee the future prosperity.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity, in which it has two interpretation of subsidiarity: the vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
The vertical subsidiarity is linked to the distribution of power between the different levels of government and sovereignty: national EU Member States, the regions and the local authorities.
The most striking application of this principle is federalism.
In the European Treaties, we can find a clear expression of the vertical subsidiarity.
But is it enough to accommodate the institutional and constitutional arrangements which are emerging in the European Union?
The horizontal subsidiarity has to do with the responsibility and the freedom of the human being, and the economic and social forces.
It involves the relationship between the state and society and the market.
But the society and the market have their own right and sovereignty, which are not provided by the state.
Thus, the problem is to guarantee the independence of each area.
An example of horizontal subsidiarity is the European internal market, which created a new type of economic freedom and increased competition between companies by removing the protection offered to them by the national governments.
The horizontal subsidiarity means that, both in the area of social issues, as in the economic sphere, the state cannot violate the individual freedom and responsibility, which must be respected to the greatest possible extent.
It also means that a "higher energy 'must support when the individual freedom and responsibility are not enough to achieve the necessary means for human dignity.
However, this support is to be implemented in such a way that it promotes the natural potential of individuals, society and the market.
But that is only possible when the role of the horizontal subsidiarity is clearly defined, which does not happen in the European Treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, or the work of the European Convention.
short, solidarity has become redistribution instead of growth (which is the way in which the present generation expresses its solidarity with future generations more), while the subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, than a careful supervision of the borders between state, civil society and the market.
Today, the definitions of the two values for the state.
In fact, to focus on growth based on the market is often associated with the semi-other people's values of the United States.
But these values are deeply rooted in Europe, and it is necessary to bring them back to the light of day.
The EU must restore their economic vitality, by means of a model of solidarity and subsidiarity which is more balanced, in favour of the market and society, and which reduces the socio-economic impact of the State.
The institutions of the State must provide public goods (as a defence, justice and monetary and fiscal policy), society must offer to corporate property (such as culture, education and assistance to the people in need of) and the market to provide economic goods (which are related to the profits, growth and employment '.
In the 21st century, Europe must reconsider the value of these two principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if it wants to achieve the historic objective of integration: the freedom and prosperity to overcome the political differences and divisions that have caused the tragedies of the twentieth century.
That is the spirit in which the European Constitution should be drawn up.
The policy of the values
The debate on the American elections has not lessened.
How can President George W. Bush to achieve three million more votes than Senator John Kerry and, in addition, an elected Republican majority in both chambers of the Congress?
There is no agreement in the answers, but two issues are repeated in many of the explanations.
This is the personality.
In the days of uncertainty and threatens, people would have more confidence in the President who knew that the candidate who had still not put to the test.
The second issue is the values.
Most people voted by a set of values than by specific policies.
In fact, some - it is said) were in agreement with the policies of Kerry, but in any case they gave its vote to Bush because they are "happy 'with its general attitude.
It is clear that the United States at the moment is deeply divided into electoral terms.
an arc of blue Member (democratic) in the East and North West assembles an enormous red area at the centre (republican) and the South.
Worse still, the divisions reproduce at local level.
It is no longer necessary to draw up the limits of the electoral districts to benefit from any political party in particular.
People in fact tend to move to regions where the majority shares its values, or are republican or democratic.
Those are precisely those values?
They have to do, and that is what we have heard, with 'God, weapons and gays'.
religion plays a role, including the real truth in the Bible about the history of creation.
The possession of a weapon is the last proof of individualism, and to use weapons of war is not abhorrent.
'modern' practices gay and other practices are rejected by excessive.
As Andrew raised the political scientist recently hacker: "the candidature of Mr Bush was drawn up in order to achieve a majority being given to some 60 million people the opportunity to feel well with themselves'.
This is an American phenomenon, or perhaps similar trends in other parties?
The answer is that the American phenomenon, the policy of values can have a majority now, but it is by no means general.
Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.
The personality, without a doubt, is important, and below the political differences also open it can have questions of values which have not come to the surface.
But political differences traditional based on the disagreement on fundamental values degressive play a role in the elections.
For example, the Prime Minister, Tony Blair, the next important leader that it will face elections will use the argument of personality and talks of policies, but it mainly represents a set of values of SMEs.
When he speaks of 'modernisation' or 'to take things into the 21st century', it managed to insinuate a strange but attractive mixture of change and stability.
That has been left to the Conservative opposition without an effective response.
Even issues such as the tax cuts and stricter laws on asylum, do not manage to achieve fibres, of the values that the Republican Party in the United States has managed to touch on.
The situation is similar in Germany, where the open influence of the policy of values is even less.
The German debate is still very much a debate of policies.
When the opposition offers the government is more recently on the reform of the health system, or on the fight against unemployment, the underlying competition is on capabilities, more than on values.
However, below the camps common political debate in England and Germany and other parts of Europe, the clashes of values roam.
The parties fight by those to whom it is possible to be claimed that 'they feel well with themselves', but perhaps they do not understand fully that this is only partly a question of policies.
It is not likely that religion is a central element of European policy does surveys show that religious observance is one of the few major differences between the American and European.
The weapons also have a different place in European mind what the European consider important is its absence.
There is also a gust of wind of pacifist values in the continent is distinctive.
But the issue of the politically correct ("gays') also has up to now been underestimated role.
The most important thing is that Europe is dividing the European, as the "national 'question arises in each State of the continent.
It is a matter of values, inspired by the fear.
People want to know where it belongs, and in that process they are made against the United States and in Europe or in Europe and to his country.
In any case, we left the field of policies, and of the policy and even entered the shady areas of symbols and myths.
This, in any case, it is the main risk that the democratic countries face, as the policy of the values is a dangerous.
reintroduces fundamental divisions in society whose greater democratic achievement was precisely to eradicate the fundamentalism of the policy.
an enlightened public debate must be a dispute about policies within a Community of values.
Therefore, to insist that it is a prime objective of the policy of freedom.
The age of interests is approaching
A make for the summer, and a month of normal growth in employment and prices in the United States does not mean that the Federal Reserve is no longer concerned with the economic malaises and deflation.
But the day will come when the global interest rates are beginning to make, as the central bankers prepare to resist the slow continues to rise in inflation.
When that day comes, whether it is the next autumn, in 2005 or 2006, or the United 2007-state and the global economy will face financial vulnerabilities product of the success that in the last three years, has had the monetary encouragement to stop reductions in production and moderate unemployment.
The short term interest rates are low amazingly: barely 2% in the euro zone, 1% in the EU and zero in Japan.
The expansionist monetary policy has been a success, but only where it is called on to reduce interest rates to historically low levels, and to convince the consumer that the costs of the appropriations will be maintained at their current levels for a long time.
The most important result of the monetary encouragement has been to increase the price of fixed assets: anything that produces returns, dividends or income is much more attractive, and by the same much more valuable in money terms - when the interest rates are very low and I hope that they will continue to be the case.
That explains the huge gulfs between the current prices of property in the EU, the actions in New York, London and Frankfurt, and links in the long term everywhere, and what one would think that normally its fundamental values.
What will happen when the banks start to raise interest rates?
In 1994, the increase in the short term rates caused increases in the long term - and fall in the prices of ties in closely term-of at least two of the common models scheduled then.
In addition, the interest rates in the peripheral economies developing grew up much more than those of the progress of industrial heart.
Thus, the first danger of what is worrying about 2005 onwards - when it is more likely that the interest rates elevate-are another wave of financial crises in the emerging markets.
For countries such as Mexico, Turkey, Argentina, Brazil, Korea and Thailand, Malaysia, the issue of the 1990s shows that the differences of interest rates to be expanded and capital flows can be reverted extremely quickly, no matter which the officials of the IMF and the analysis of the largest banks look favourably on the policies of a country.
The differences of interest rates of the emerging markets are currently abnormally low.
The international capital flows - without including those arriving at the eu-todavía they are not at the level which is associated with the 'irrational exuberance', but there is still time for that to happen before the start to raise interest rates.
This is an alarming perspective, because the lesson that the 1990s left us was that no one should exaggerate the stability of the international financial flows.
The second danger is derived from the high value of the goods in the progress of industrial heart.
The flow of dominant believed in the Federal Reserve - with which I am in agreement-seems that the computer is science-technological revolution, that the rate of growth of the potential production in the EU is still very fast and that, therefore, the output gap is relatively broad.
This means that, in fact, it will be necessary to keep interest rates low over a considerable period of time.
In addition, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high, and the last vestiges of the premiums of inflationary risks have been taken out of the interest rates.
As a result, after the production levels even return to their potential, interest rates will remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980s and 1990s.
All this, of course, they are good news for those who have assets such as long term links, actions and property.
In effect, an increase in the long term, the price of goods was precisely the objective of reducing interest rates: after all, to make the possesors links and, above all, to the owners of real estate richer is a stimulus for expenditure.
But the worst thing is that even if hopes that the interest rates are low over a period of time, they will not be so low indefinitely.
It is the case that, when the interest rates of increase, the value of the property will fall.
In these periods - particularly when the value of the assets is quickly and substantial-we can see exactly skill of our central bankers to comply with its main task: to reduce financial volatility and to promote economic stability.
At that time we warned of the number of people who have long term links, property or actions, not because they consider that the current prices are attractive in relation to the economic fundamentals, but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
That is a crucial issue for the designer of policies because they acquired assets of long term because of what seemed to be a constant increase in prices are such that there will be to sell as soon as the prices are shown to be a step backwards.
In particular, the trade deficit of the EU has been a great source of instability if prices in the long term goods fall in a meaningful way.
Certainly the challenges that the designer of economic policy in the world will face in the coming years will be different from that which has faced since the collapse of the bubble of NASDAQ.
Perhaps the risks associated with inflation are less dangerous than those of the fall in production and the threat of deflation.
But, as we learned in the 1990s, that does not mean that the future challenges will be easier to handle.
In the face of the future in the United States
Recently I knew something interesting: the American economists of international finance and the American macroeconomists geared to the local analysis of the United States have very different views - in fact, the opposite) on the likely effects of the enormous deficit of current account of the USA.
The economists of international finance see likely that in the United States it is a financial crisis, followed by a perhaps long and painful recession.
The macroeconomists geared to the local analysis, in contrast, see the imminent fall in the value of the dollar, not as a crisis, but as an opportunity to speed up the growth.
In general terms, they see the situation in the following way: at some point in the future, the foreign central banks will be less willing to continue to buy large quantities of values "in dollars in order to underpinning up role of money.
When their programmes for the purchase of dollars on a large scale have, the value of the dollar will fall? and fall strong.
However, according to this vision, as declines the value of the dollar, the American exports will be made more attractive for foreigners, employment will be strengthened and labour to the export industry will be reincorporará, which will have a new stage by stage.
It will be like what happened in England, after we left the embodiment of its type of change and allowed the pound was depreciated with regard to the German mark, or what it by the end of what has happened in the United States 1980s, when the euro has depreciated the pound in front of the German mark and - most importantly - the Japanese yen.
The economists of international finance see a bleak future much more.
They see the end of the programmes for the purchase of dollars on a large scale of the central banks will mean not only a decline in the dollar, but also a rise in interest rates of long term of the United States, which will put an end to the cost of consumption immediately and will smother the cost of investment after a small retardation.
There is no doubt that the economists of international finance also see that the American exports will profit as the value of the dollar low, but the retardations in demand are following the loss in the cost of such that the export promotion will be a year or two consumption and investment.
eight out of ten million people will have to change jobs, from the services sector and the construction of the sectors related to exports and the goods that compete with imports, which means that it will increase unemployment is structural.
Further, it can have a financial panic: the large financial institutions with debts of short term and assets of long term will be seen in difficulties as opposed to a huge increase in the so-called interest rates of long term in dollars.
This disparity can lead to financial tensions and bankruptcy as easily as the debts of short term in dollars and the assets in local currency of the banks caused them during the Mexican crisis and the East Asia in the 1990s, and the crisis in Argentina in the 1990s.
When the economists of international finance describe this scenario, the macroeconomists geared to the local analysis of the US answer that it sounds to a case of incompetent monetary policy.
So that the Federal Reserve should allow the interest rates of long term only had a huge rise because other central banks have completed their programmes for the purchase of dollars?
should not take part, and to replace them with their own funds bond purchases in the USA, to maintain that the long-term interest rates to a level that will lead to the full employment?
To this, the economists of international finance reply that the Federal Reserve does not have the power to do so.
If we are forced to choose between the full employment and the stability of prices, the economists of international finance say that the Federal Reserve will choose the stability of prices, since its institutional memory of the 1970s, when inflation went to clouds, remains very strong.
Therefore, as a fall in the value of the dollar, increase the price of imports and it works as a negative impact on supply in the economy, the Federal Reserve will have to increase, not decrease, interest rates and to sell links instead of buying them.
On both sides of the debate, there are serious economists who respect greatly.
I am not sufficiently wise and to say what is the right side, but certainly know what I hope is wrong.
gorrones of Europe
In the United States, the Member States that they have inadequate fiscal policies have a penalty.
Their links are sold at a price reduction in relation to those of the Member States, better managed.
The high service more of the debt that they have to pay for work -- in some degree -- as a way of discipline against the temptation to spend now and to pay later.
Of course, the discipline of the market is not perfect: the bond market, to a large extent, "does not see 'implicit future liabilities (such as the payments made by pensions).
However, this forced fiscal discipline, together with its own internal budgetary procedures of each Member State, has not given a fiscal crisis on a large scale to state level in the EU from the great depression.
Let us look at the case of Europe now.
Before the adoption of the euro, there were many tax crises in the nation States of the south of the continent, which produced the waves of high inflation.
But with the establishment of the single currency, the way for the solution of the financial crises by means of inflation was closed, as now, the European Central Bank (ECB) is the monetary policy.
However, even though the nation states can no longer use the inflation to resolve their financial imbalances, the single currency will enable them to use the debt capacity that properly belongs to other States of the European Union to continue its adventures of spending and to postpone the surrender of political accounts for their periods of laissez them von temps roulés.
In order to avoid this possibility, the EU created the Stability and Growth Pact: deficits government had to be of less than 3% of GDP.
Last week, the government of Germany -- which sometimes was the Member of the most prudent and disciplined EU -- broke the rules of the Pact on fiscal discipline for the fifth consecutive year, and he did this without (great) excuse.
The Minister of Finance, peer steinbrueck, pointed out that I hope that the European Commission imposed some penalty to germany. said that if certain measures are not taken, the credibility of the Growth and Stability Pact would be at risk.
Therefore, Germany would not block the sanctions on this occasion, as we made two and a half years ago.
But steinbrueck also made it clear that he hoped that the sanctions in response to the planned fiscal deficit in Germany of the 3,4% of GDP was to a large extent symbolic, and nonpunishments that cost to their government or its economy a great deal.
The Stability and Growth Pact is not working --, or at least not even remotely -- and as it was intended to do so.
And the discipline of the market?
It is limited to the will of the German Government to give more debt and perhaps to have deficits because the market recognises and penalises the nation states that allow their fiscal positions are weakened?
In a word, no.
The interest rates of the so-called sovereign debt in euros from the twelve eurozone governments are very similar.
For that reason, the market, it seems not to him that the Member States have different potential to generate exports to finance the financial flows have to pay the debt, or different relations debt current and planned - GDP.
Willem Buiter of the University of Amsterdam and Anne sibert from London University believes that it has been the willingness of the ECB to accept, in effect, all the debt of the eurozone as a guarantee which has undermined the willingness of the market to act as a responsible to ensure that there is fiscal prudence.
As long as a marginal part of the German debt is used as a guarantee for a loan of short term or as the basis for an agreement on the purchase of obtaining liquidity, it is much more likely that its value is determined by the terms in which the ECB accepts the guarantees that by its foundations.
The treatment that will now give the ECB to all these debts as a powerful source of liquidity reserve scuppering any analysis of the differences in the sovereign risk of long term.
In the long term, that is dangerous.
Both the discipline of the market and the tax administration is necessary to create a reasonable chance of achieving price stability in the long term.
Perhaps if the institutional sentences of the market in a way that can be returned reckless or levers are omitted to give voice to future generations, running serious risks -- not today or tomorrow, but one day, and for the rest of our lives.
As time passes, the arrival of the single currency and the way in which the euro has been implemented are generating more and more concern.
The policy as a whole throughout the euro zone is too deflacionaria.
transfers are not being required to ensure that the common currency is acceptable in the regions that suffer and which are already in recession when the ECB does the policy more restrictive.
The institutional foundations of a stable fiscal policy of long term are being eroded.
And now, Buiter and sibert argue in a convincing way, the ECB is giving to the market less scope than it would have to reward those who save and punish to waste.
There are still no ground movements, and there will be no them for some time.
But the land under the euro could begin to shake if things do not change.
Milosevic and Hussein: the farce as a trial
The opinions of the war criminals used to be a serious matter.
Let us remember the photographs of Herman sitting, taciturn goering and Rudolf Hess, in the dock in Nuremberg.
Some of the Nazi leaders were even hanging after a relatively short but fair trials.
At the moment, the legal proceedings against the evilest leaders of the world have become a sham.
The trial of Saddam Hussein and his fellow criminals of the Ba'ath party are an endless series of am ashamed.
The defendants use a fudge after another and Hussein shows its contempt for all the possible forms.
It is difficult to wait for a result which is legitimate in the eyes of the Iraqis or the world.
In the meantime, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic was funeral after four years of boring testimonies and a cost of over 200 million dollars.
In Cambodia, the United Nations and the government have been almost ten years titubeando on the way to take in view of the survival of the Khmer Rouge members.
The mass murderers who came to power in the twentieth century were condemned to die in popular revolts or that it considered itself to them for their crimes -- this is, if I did not die in the position.
to whom we can be proud that the last Communist leader of Romania, Nicolai Ceausescu and his wife was carried out without even the slightest emergence of a fair trial?
the formalities of a real European Court always seem to be better than instant justice, although the final outcome is also the death.
At the moment, there are two types of possible to proceed against a demoted Tirana.
A nation can take in view of its own former leaders, since the Argentineans in 1980, with the generals were responsible for the loss of more than 5.000 for their fellow citizens.
At international level, the model of Nuremberg trials are still available to generate additional, albeit under the ambiguous conditions in which the victorious powers sometimes they place the responsibility of crimes, such as in the case of the 'crimes against humanity', which were not properly defined at the time that they were committed.
There was a time when the advantages of the national trials and the international could be seen as much.
The internal trials allowed local community to alleviate their sorrow when closely involved in the process.
as judge and jury, fellow countrymen from the defendant could also exert greater sensitivity when assessing the fault because they saw the condition in which a strong demoted dictator has made its decision.
The trial of the generals in Argentina was a successful ritual in the painful transition of the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience we have many doubts.
Even after the decisions, the generals were sufficiently powerful enough to ensure that the trial is over, and then to achieve the pardon of the incoming President.
The policy of Argentina is still engaged in the legal consequences of these trials of 20 years ago.
At international level, the decision of the Security Council of the United Nations, to establish the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY by its stands in English) was also received with great confidence.
The ICTY made in effect a number of original decisions under the leadership of Mr Antonio Cassese.
But then, the judges had the misfortune of their dream longed for was met them more -- to judge at the Court archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
Now it is not clear how they should handle the Serbs to Milosevic in a local judgment.
It would have been very much on the political party that the Court controlled.
At international level, the fear was not that there was too much policy but too much entitled.
The trial of Mr Milosevic had to be more than just does it had to be the flagship of the justice of the UN.
For that reason it was allowed Milosevic to defend itself -- a big mistake in terms of the speed and efficiency of the trial.
a limit on the number of witnesses was not put to the public prosecutors called upon to pay tribute to the same horrific stories of the Serbian aggression and brutality.
It will take several months to determine what was what went wrong, and so that the trial lasted four years, which is a scandal.
my hunch is that the well-intentioned officials of the Court let themselves influence too much by the Commission for peace and reconciliation in South Africa, a model announced in the schools of law as the alternative wish the penalty justice.
In the South African processes, the most important issue was not the future of the accused but the past of the victims.
I was encouraged to all the victims to have its history and the defendant heard.
In the case of the massacres which existed in the twentieth century, these narrations can take decades.
to encourage the victims to talk and to give further to the accused the right to hinder the process proclaiming its merits and political leader is equivalent to a formula for the infinite postponement.
One lesson we have learned from the trials of Milosevic and Hussein is that it should not be taken in view of men and women in order to put an end to its attractive charismatic.
They are angry trial -- particularly if it is allowed to defend itself to themselves -- and they will use the Court to assert their careers.
The tyrants, it is only necessary to judge them after they have clearly been defeated.
Ironically, it was an advantage for the cuts in Nuremberg to be composed of representatives of the victorious powers.
They are a constant reminder for goering, Hess and his fellow criminals that the allies had the control and that the Nazis irreversibly were defeated.
The clear objective of the trial, always went to punish the guilty, not to decide on the way in which history should be written.
The tragedy in the cases of Milosevic and Hussein is that history still do not end up being written and it was being tried to history.
The resulting indecision of which they were to position gave rise to procedures -- international as well as national -- that they provided the fantasies of demand and return.
In the case of Hussein, that fantasy still can become a reality.
The economic division of Iraq
who look to Iraq to see a nation divided between Shiite communities, Sunnite and Kurdish.
But the growing gap between rich and poor in Iraq is an equally important division, that it has contributed to the continuing uprising as much as the sectarian struggles, and opposition to the occupation, led by the United States.
If Iraq were released, the majority of people, especially the poor, began to be hopeful that a charismatic leader here who have used them from the harsh reality of daily life.
The fact that having with fear, they did not have the idea of how the democracy of its society could be implemented and how the defending human rights groups and other civic organisations could help to shape the future.
In a time of Iraq are faced with a new social division.
On the one hand, they are the people who understand how to work in a democracy, how to achieve the power and to fulfil their ambitions.
They learnt to speak the language of democracy and in the process they obtained money and influence and recruited independent organisations to defend its rights and privileges.
However, on the other side there is the huge population of Iraqis without being able, including a divorced and left widows and women who do not have the who is aware of them and their children.
For these people, democracy and human rights do not mean anything.
They are uninformed, poor and they are ill.
They are victims of an education system that collapse for more than a decade and have had few skills which will allow us to find a job in the ruined economy of Iraq.
During the regime of Saddam's efforts were not made to raise the standard of living of the poor.
I have visited the extensive slums of Iraq and have found families who live in homes that as soon as they have ceiling, which is infested of insects and sneaking black waters them down the doors.
by day and night they live in the dark.
These families, who do not need more than food, a decent housing and the possibility of having an employment, wait for the death of hearing the terrible cries of their children who are starving.
When I met with the women who live in those homes are flooded with me questions: perhaps democracy will give food and houses us?
evitará that men strike their spouses?
It will give the citizens of our children?
It will give us the right to divorce ourselves from the husbands who leave us?
My response to all these issues was' yes'.
Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent housing, to learn and work, and will give the citizens to their children, and it will make men equal.
But they must work hard and make every effort to demand their rights.
They replied: "Saddam taught us for 35 years to be unemployed, silent and fear.
What can we do now?
In those areas where it is most deprived of the Iraqi people, people are imprisoned on the bitter temptations.
Many are beyond the scope of the political leaders and government.
They easily fall in violence, theft and sabotage.
Poverty is certain to receive money in exchange for making acts of violence, instigados by the attractiveness of a false heroísmo that could not be implemented during the long regime of Saddam.
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq, which has meant that people become indifferent to the fact to kill.
Although the current conditions of Iraq lead to many young people to violence, I am convinced that the only thing we need to do to save them is to give them to use and decent housing.
The jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives by means of a serious work.
We do not have to use jobs where it does not work to disguise an army of unemployed.
We should be giving people jobs which allow them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.
By its very nature, each individual seeks to show that this is a useful person for their society.
But the culture that Saddam created convinced the Iraqis, that the only way to achieve authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.
to overcome these ideas will take time and an active economy, which means that the new Iraqi Government must have a limited power that will allow the private sector to grow and, at the same time, enables the general understanding of democracy and human rights.
The religious groups are prepared to contribute to that process.
Also, we can restore the technocrats who worked on the government of Saddam, so that they will also have the opportunity to serve their country.
Last but not least, we must give credit to the families to help build a life them respectable.
Above all, the government does not have to make every effort to convince the poor Iraqis of the values of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the Constitution to fulfil their ambitions of a better life.
It will not be easy to achieve that in a country in which many people think that to break the law, it is a heroísmo act.
But we have also learned that the Iraqi them power does not have to be concentrated in a few hands and to establish justice requires to fight against corruption in all its forms.
So that the Constitution works as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, the poor Iraqis must learn to accept that fight.
The Islamic identity
At the moment, where it is that we deal with, is used to Islam - and one being abused) as a political force.
Some Muslims use it as called for action are many in the West - and other places) perceive it as a 'other' what there is to contain and to exclude.
As Mr Turco, I directly experience both sides of this debate.
The reason for that Islam is a religion in the eyes of Western 'other' is that in the West, a systematic desinstitucionalización of religion has been given.
Of course, it is not a religion that has disappeared from the Western modern life, but what they can do religious institutions on the individual behaviour.
The religion in the modern world is a personal and much more spiritual experience than ever.
However, also in Islam, a process of desinstitucionalización of religious experience is happening.
the politicisation of Islam is replacing the authority of the religious classes, ulema.
As in the West and the Islamic religious experience is becoming more staff.
One of the results is the interpretation of political, in a personal capacity intellectual religious texts that Muslims are doing, including a militant and women.
Another is the vulgarization of religious knowledge, abuse of the lessons of the Koran and them context extraction support for political purposes.
Who decides what is right and what is illegal in Islam?
Who has the authority to interpret religious texts?
Who can make a fatwa 'or' state 'Jihad'?
Today, the enterprise and terrorism offer, or rather they impose a new source of legitimacy.
In this way, they are legos who decide what is and what is not Islam, without the authority of the religious schools and of a specialist training.
In fact, Islam, at the moment, interprets through political actors and cultural movements and not of religious institutions.
The desinstitucionalización has allowed that Islam is a local bond social and national everywhere forge imaginary links between all the displaced persons Muslims who feel oppressed or.
In that way, Islam can unite supporters who before were deeply divided: the Sufis spiritual Muslims and canonized members of the shariat does the Shiite Muslims and Sunnite does Saudi Arabia in the conservative and Iran revolutionary.
At the same time, Islam is moving, with the believers who are leaving rural areas to move to the cities, including those in the West.
Many see this movement as a negative, and emphasise the fact that these people are displaced persons socially, which leads to the distraction and, to some to terrorism.
But social mobility is also a prerequisite to create a modern vision.
Of course, through the migration, Muslims experience a distance feeling, if it is not that of total break, of the social causes.
Thus, its religious experience is of a new kind, deprived of theological, Community institutions or state.
The religious experience is a form of social imagination, within which they restructure a feeling of belonging to Islam in new and strange environment.
It is not the remoteness of modern life, but the proximity to her what triggers a return to the religious identity.
In fact, most of the radicalismos they arise in groups which, by their experiences of mobility and movement, know political thought and secular western urban life.
confused its new environment, Islam is its anchor.
But for that to include work, it is necessary to secure the release of Islam in its traditional servile, passive and obedient attitude towards modernity.
By using a veil or beard, in demanding the right to take places for the sentence in the work and the College and when demanding special food, Muslims, is clearly identified as such.
They are saying to those around them that they are more jealously guarded and thorough in its religious observance of those limits their religiosidad private life.
For example, the non-Muslim view generally to the veil as a sign of degradation and equal for the Muslim women.
However, of being stigma, for the Muslims, it has become a sign of its positive statement of the Islamic identity.
The young Muslim women in Europe, illustrate this transformation perfectly.
The girls who take the pañoleta at the head of the German and French schools are closer in many respects - that is to say, the youth culture, fashion and language) their classmates to their mothers, without education and stay at home.
when using the pañoleta in European public sector, these girls are involuntarily altering the symbol and the role of the Muslim women.
This trend is beyond pañoletas.
All the Western Muslims have a double sense of belonging, a cultural capital double.
They are defined themselves through its religiosidad, but they also have acquired universal secular knowledge.
Because they have a cultural capital double, different activities and areas can move with relative freedom between (the youth homes, schools, associations and the urban areas of relaxation).
To be Muslim and Islamic is not the same.
What we are witnessing at the moment is a shift of a Muslim identity into an Islamic identity.
As for the Muslim religion is a shift in the private sphere to the public.
The question is whether the search for all of the identity can meet with pañoletas and a broad public acceptance of the Islamic religious practices, or if the positive statement of Islam, requires a more essential resignation of modernity.
A new era for Islamic science?
For some hundreds of years when science and mathematics was going through a period of great inventions, a region of the world emphasised.
There is honoured the masters of these disciplines, medicine developed quickly and common people were interested in the way in which the nature worked.
It is not surprising that this region was respected world.
In the other half of the well-known world was punished, and even that was killed by the scientists.
The mathematics were banned because they were considered alien to the religion and then were subordinate this.
The standards of living are low.
The prosperous region was the Islamic Middle East, whereas a ignorant Europe stayed in poverty.
Both regions had religious governments (historians here do not agree on the role and the nature of the religions) but science bloomed in only one of them.
Now, of course, the roles of the Islamic Middle East and West have exchanged.
Since the Second World War, the United States has been the undisputed leader in scientific questions.
Throughout this period, the most brilliant pupils have left their native countries attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutions.
Until recently, more than half of the withdrawn ones in the fields of mathematics, science and technology in the United States they had been born abroad.
Many of these talents remained after their strength, and both the industry and the government took advantage of it.
In the meantime, the Islamic cultures entered an historic phase in which science compared with a Western influence and they are avoided.
Even in those countries where the oil revenue could promote a significant amount of research, the Arab governments do not encourage these investments, and as a result of their societies have not been accepted everything they could.
Recently, a desire to achieve greater political respect has encouraged the Islamic nations to invest in technology. where note that is more in the nuclear ambitions of Pakistan and Iran.
But these weapons have political weight, the scientific terms in which they rely are old and mundane.
The issue is more significant than it is due to incubate ideas, which is the one that comes from products of previous discoveries.
Let us imagine the influence which would be created if a Pakistani Institute is the world leader in research on cancer.
cambiaría political rhetoric if the researchers in omán discovered the key to eliminate aid?
This is an opportunity which has not taken advantage of.
But there is another one, and not just for the Islamic societies.
The United States has made mistakes recently.
The "questions of faith 'have replaced science in all the government, starting with the President.
political officials have changed reports of major researchers in the actions contradict the official thinking.
driven by an administration influenced by religion, the educational systems are changing its approach of science to the 'values'.
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, visas are littler and difficult to achieve, which has reduced the flow of young talent to the American universities.
The important scientific organisations have protested, without achieving results.
At the same time, the tax laws have been changed to make the short term investors richer, which discourages the long-term investment in research.
In the war in Iraq has been spent half trillion dollars, roughly the same amount which was devoted to the final support all the basic research a thousand years.
Even if the United States is getting rid of a fundamentalist average age, they are clearly run the risk of losing its world domination in the field of research.
Japan has recognised the link between the political influence and science, in the course of the 1980.
The main industrial Japan, akio morita, President of Sony, and the political right shintaro ishihara gave a number of speeches which were produced and published in 1986 in a book entitled the Japan which can say no - Japan which can say no).
They outlined a national strategy in which it was understood that the world influence arising from the scientific leadership.
The central idea was that the military power could become outdated if other nations to control the 'food chain' of the military technology.
The title of the book relates to the plan of Japan "to say 'no' to the military influence of the United States once Japan controlled military key technologies.
to build an economy based on knowledge, using oil wealth is clearly as possible.
For example, Texas, like most of the countries of the south of the United States, sometimes was economically poor and was in decline.
Even if it had oil revenue, the flow of dollars an economy in itself does not increase the prosperity as much as you might think.
For that reason, Texas decided to spend their money from oil to an educational fund.
At the moment, this fund is approximately equal to that of the University of Harvard and it is distributed between 15 universities.
The effect has been impressive: the aerospace manufacturing almost have disappeared from California, but they are in the middle of the boom in Texas.
A multitude of centres and telecommunications companies have changed themselves to Texas, even of the Canadian giant nortel telecommunications.
Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, Texas is one of the most significant manufacturing economies in the world.
There is no reason why the same result in the Middle East could not be achieved.
But first of all, the Islamic world needs to rediscover and adopt a heritage of which we should be proud of.
The debate on Iran on Iraq
No country in the Middle East is still pending from the events of the post-war situation in Iraq, Iran.
The geographical proximity, an intensive and bloody history of conflicts with the religious and emotional Iraq de Saddam Hussein, links with Shiite Iraq and the concerns about the United States and its policy in the region is all links between Iran with their western neighbour.
Given the current tensions with the USA, Iran is particularly concerned about the likelihood that the Americans are provided on a permanent basis in a neighbouring country, as well as by the dominant role of the USA in determining the future of Iraq pos-saddam.
To those who are abroad can be difficult for them to follow the internal debates Iranian, but they exist and are intensive, even though they are not always visible to the public international more general.
There are three general approach which can be recognised in the present Iranian debate on Iraq pos-saddam.
pragmatic the Iranians argue that Iran will inevitably have to cooperate with the United States, at least to safeguard the rights of the Shiite Iraqi population.
Therefore, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in Iraq would not be hostile, and would have to search for friendly bilateral relations.
The other vital considerations for the pragmatists are the maintenance of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees who live in Iran.
The Moderates believe that the government of Iran should put pressure on the USA to achieve the extradition of the members of the mujahdin-e Khalq Organisation (MKO) which has its basis in Iraq, as well as the total dismantling of this group.
In exchange for it, the government of Iran should support the preservation of peace, stability and security in Iraq.
In short, the pragmatists would limit the treatment between Iran and the United States of America, have kept them based on a programme which would, above all, reflect the internal concerns of Iran.
The Iranian conservative forces support above all this position.
Another position has a more active and cooperative role of Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Those in favour of this vision argue that Iran is in a good position to ensure that the restructuring is easier, due to their well established infrastructure of personal and institutional links in Iraq.
Sooner or later they argue, the United States and the international community will recognize the value of the Iranian cooperation.
The Iranian cooperation should be made to pay for the dismantling of the infrastructure of the MKO in Iraq, perhaps, together with the Iranian commitment to increase its efforts to put an end to any activity of Al-Qaida, as well as to remove from Iran to its Members.
What is more important, Iran should press for the USA gives the security of their cooperation will be a constant element in the American guarantee that Iran will not be the objective of a military action of the United States in the future.
In short, those in favour of cooperation for an open and explicit negotiation: the support from Iran to stability in the current phase of transition in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the standing government which arises in Iraq, whatever their signing, in exchange for an improvement of the regional and international position of Iran.
This view is very popular among the Iranian reformists - both inside and outside the government) and the technocratic and business class with more international mentality.
Finally, on the Iranian radicals, the possibility of establishing a relationship of cooperation with the USA is a pure fantasy.
To believe that the United States is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
From the point of view of the radicals, less than the USA, it hopes to dictate changes of scale in the Iranian foreign policy.
And what the Americans are proposed, argue more, is to press for a change of regime in Iran.
The United States will take initiatives to acquire knowledge and nuclear power on the part of Iran, and may even try to weaken the Iranian general military capacity.
The radical Members see the invasion of Iraq by the USA and the reflection of American desire to surround Iran.
In response, they think that Iran must defend their interests in an active way, a strategic alliances with regional Russia and other powers and using the influence of Iran in Iraq to prevent in Baghdad is a pro-US and the Iranian Government.
The radical Members of all the groups support this view.
to overthrow the regime of Saddam was the easy part of crisi Iraqi.
Now, how difficult it is to consolidate peace and security, to win the war against terrorism, and to convince the Muslim masses of what the United States does not intend to deal with Iraq, to take their oil and to reshape the Middle East to its image and similar.
In the meantime, it is likely to increase the opposition to the USA, expressed in suicide bombings and other forms of terrorism.
Iran is destined to remain a regional role of first importance, because their political dynamism and its Muslim identity resonate widely in the Islamic world.
What is happening in Iraq will have implicancias of first importance to Iran, and the USA is well advised as far as looking for ways to recognise this fact.
The American threats or speculation on another war, inflame the flames of resentment and the frustration in Iran, strengthening the most radical forces.
If the USA wants to avoid this result, account must be taken to limit the influence of their own radicals, being recognised that the American interests in Iraq benefit with greater cooperation with Iran.
The issue of Iraq
It has finally been reached the point where in Iraq tode the world clearly wants the same thing: the way out of the country of the coalition forces.
The recent leak of a document of the British Ministry of Defence on the withdrawal highlights that wish.
The only question is how to respond to it.
As long as the coalition forces are still there, it is likely that the violence increases.
But they leave, will also increase, but more quickly.
In this way, the real question is how to reach the point where Iraq is a police and army for the maintenance of law and order, too, can be relied on.
A great deal needs to move forward at least to approach.
In spite of the value of the many Iraqi people who go to the army and the police, it is no surprise that some may have reasons that are not so simple.
In the north of Iraq old accounts are being settled and ethnic segregation de facto in areas such as irbil has been introduced which traditionally were different.
In other areas the Sharia law has been introduced by force.
How, then, can create Iraq uniforms services which the application of the law of efficient and fair way without ethnic considerations can be confident, religious or of gender?
The traditional answer is to recruit and train and to bring the "right values'.
But there is not enough time for that.
other methods are needed.
In the absence of a system of values deeply rooted, Iraq needs organisations in civil society, to ensure that the police and the army accountability.
They could take various forms, but the important thing is that they are more inclusive at local level and that they receive support from the structures of being able distritales, regional and national when they say that there are abuses.
If there is a local elections and the strengthening and national recognition of the value of that vote, then it is likely that the majority of the members of the uniforms forces who behave in a proper way -- and which can be identified and be punished more easily if they do not do so.
This might seem to be too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country like Iraq in many areas, there are groups that are working to achieve this goal.
The partnership for peace and Unidad (cpau) provide a model of the way in which this can be done.
In Afghanistan and in Iraq, the priority of ordinary people, has been to achieve a reduction of violence.
The cpau worked throughout the country during the last three years to establish committees of peace at distrital level, supported by the Council of satellite peace in the peoples.
The initiative is facing a culture in which violence is so strong that sometimes the children learn arithmetic counting the number of dead Soviet troops.
Therefore, the committees looking for all sectors of the Community -- including teachers, tribal and religious leaders, women, police, soldiers, judges and employers -- work together to design non-violent ways to resolve disputes.
Although monitoring has not be part of a formal role of committees until now - it is envisaged that it is in the future), the simple fact that the police, the army and the judiciary is part of these committees puts them in contact with the rest of the Community, it offers reaction and it is beginning to create confidence.
Some of the results are clear.
In a factory, local military Commandant attended a couple of hours of courtesy and end up becoming every week.
In the end it apologized for their violent past and it undertook to disarm their private army of 2.000 States.
Now I visit regularly in the offices of the Committee.
In Iraq, projects such as the centre of humanitarian access in Kirkuk is beginning to act as of supervision by offering local, a number of people in the ethnic, the opportunity to make their complaints and to help to solve them.
But all too often, even when a judicial failure is that it is not implemented because of intimidation.
The American and British forces have already done a lot of positive work to strengthen civil society.
It is not heard of the factories to enable women and successful in the organisation of elections on a small scale throughout the country.
But to mobilise civil society is an enormous challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, it needs to be done quickly and on a large scale.
The troops remains necessary, but they are also the incentives to lay down their weapons, including the prospect of economic opportunities that are more profitable than the crime and racketeering.
Fortunately, to create a capacity for civil society is as cheap as important.
The centre of humanitarian access addresses all Kirkuk to an annual cost of 75.000 dollars difficult.
with 10 million dollars these centres could be referred back a hundred times -- and would exceed enough.
The challenge is to commit itself to that approach, to strengthen and to support fully the courageous people who face the challenge to call to account the power.
In other words, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people will get the certainty that, after so many years of suffering, is urgently needed.
democracy in the Nile?
The surprise decision of hosni Egyptian President Mubarak to propose a constitutional amendment which would make it possible to have direct and competitive presidential elections can be a giant step forward for democracy in Egypt and the Arab world.
to Western, the usual ones to pluralist democracy, it may be difficult to understand the enormity of the potential change that this can mean in a country that is used by the military government for more than 50 years.
Under the current system, the Egyptian citizens can only be the day of a presidential referendum every six years and speak in favour of or against the only name on the problem.
This explains why someone like Mr Mubarak always achieved more than 90% of the votes, although it has been with an indifferent participation.
The leaders of Syria and Iraq has gone to them, even better, with this system, without a doubt, because they demand that the names and guidelines of the voters were submitted to it wears out of every vote.
Many have been arguing for a long time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not do much to Egypt is fully committed to the process.
Egypt could not really take the road to democratization without reforming its first Constitution -- to reduce the faraónicos powers of its President and to set limits to its period of government.
After all, Mubarak has already been 24 years as President.
For that reason, the announcement that is competitive presidential elections is an important first step.
The regime can assume that it will be able to use the process for their benefit, but perhaps the events are not so easy to control when people start to feel that it must be possible.
the genius of democracy has already left the light.
In any case, it is not the only country to this war-torn region to take the path of democracy.
Turkey, on one side of the Middle East, and Morocco, on the other, are already well advanced.
This time, the real impetus seems to come from the subsidiarity and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, the Palestinian Authority and to a lesser extent Saudi Arabia.
The demonstrations against the unprecedented occupation in Lebanon, Syria, following the assassination of their former Prime Minister, Rafiq al-hariri, do not sign to calm.
The Egyptian groups of opposition have carried out more and more daring is proceeding and other forms of civil disobedience, in the last few weeks.
The catalyst for their fury was the arrest of the sick, the leader of the opposition Ayman Nour at the end of January.
The harsh conduct of part of the government revitalised the local movement 'kifaya' (crude), which called for the purpose of the system of Mubarak.
Suddenly, the public's perception of what the Egyptian men are passive and afraid to act appears not to be the case.
an alliance of local, regional and international forces' up against the tyranny of always' of the shores of the Nile.
The recent wave of people's pressure seems to have shaken the regime.
Only a month ago, Mubarak rejected the demands of constitutional reforms, describing them as in vain.
But anyone who has been the combination of factors which led it to change its view, we must welcome the initiative for the elections.
It is a first step, but it is not necessary -- -- to redesign the suspended political system of Egypt.
The Egyptian men are already wary of the symbolic reforms in the style of those of Tunisia, where President Zine the abidin bin Ali, with a great deal of time in the energy, created a caricature of a constitutional amendment which seemed to open the door to the competitive elections, then to create an electoral farce, with some 'opponents' elected by him.
In referenda presidential earlier, bin Ali normally received 99% of the voting. this time obtained 96%.
Let us hope that Mr Mubarak take more seriously the electoral reform.
As sincerity shows, has had to order the immediate release of Ayman Nour and to take steps to put an end to the emergency situation for 24 years, and that it is in the fact that are carried out presidential campaigns.
Mr Mubarak must also support a limit of not more than two consecutive periods of up to five years for any President.
The confidence-building measures are also needed and include the open and fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the state.
I have announced that I intend to dispute the next presidential elections as a way to open the debate on these essential reforms.
But I would be happy to come back to my life of citizens once free and open elections in the autumn, are guaranteed.
If they are applied seriously, these measures will transform the legacy of Mubarak.
Together with the events in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine, can begin this spring Arab of freedom should long since have arrived.
An historic choice in Egypt?
The Egyptian men will pass through the ballot box 7 September to elect a president of the ten candidate countries, including those that have been for 24 years, hosni Mubarak.
Although a few doubts that the result will be the re-election of the latter, many are following enthusiastically the process.
On 6 000 national observers have received qualifications for those elections and hundreds of foreign correspondents are converging in the country this week.
Although all the formal details of a real election campaign are present, important aspects of authentication are conspicuous by their absence.
In spite of the promises made in the opposite direction, the level playing field is to be the same for everyone.
Mr Mubarak continue to disproportionate assets: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly of electronic media controlled by the state and 85% of printed media.
one week before the elections, some opposition candidates have not yet been able to present / demonstrate an electoral announcement on the Egyptian television.
All the members of the Commission of the presidential elections have been appointed by Mr Mubarak and the new electoral rules have removed all the independent candidates.
From the year 2000, 8 000 judges of Egypt must monitor and ensure the election results, according to a resolution of the Supreme Court.
It was an important step towards the establishment of fair elections, because the professional association of the magistracy has continued to count on sufficient independence, despite the attempts of the executive authority to take it over half a century.
So that the system of Mubarak has had to resort to various stratagems to neutralise the association of the courts.
It was to extend the definition of "judiciary 'to include thousands of loyal staff of the government, which have qualifications of lawyers in law, but legal nonexperience, which leaves disarmed the real judges, therefore, if they protest boycotting the functions of supervision, the task will once again fall to the police in degrading Ministry of the Interior.
Thus, in the past, the association of the courts I used to say Amen, with a predictable outcome.
In the parliamentary elections in 2000, while the divided governor of Mubarak received the 38% of the people's vote in the districts overseen by the real judges, that figure had to be nothing less than the 86% where supervision was the responsibility of the cuasijueces.
This year, it seems that it is going to be very different.
In the spring, the judges held a national assembly and decided that, unless the regime granted to full independence and the exclusive supervision of the voting process, they would not monitor the next presidential elections (or Members of Parliament).
on 2 September made / displayed their final demands: to enable civil society groups follow the voting process, to put an end to the interference in the definition of the legitimate judges in the run-up to the elections and to gain access to the permanent presence of a legitimate judge in front of each of the ballot boxes until it had had, certification and communication their content.
Until now, it is likely that the situation is a dead end, because the chairman of the electoral commission has stated publicly in the Egyptian television, which rejects the supervision of the electoral process on the part of all the citizens.
Another interesting developments on the eve of the elections is a tough public debate on whether to vote or to boycott the presidential elections.
various opposition parties have asked their States that do not participate: to protest against restrictive electoral regulations which favour enormously Mubarak.
On the other hand, the Muslim Brothers, as the group of opposition to the strongest of Egypt, are calling for their supporters to turn out to vote, and to do so in good conscience, but not to support any "despotic and corrupt 'Governor.
It is clear, but an implicit, repudiation of Mubarak, the only governor for 24 years.
Thirty-four organisations of civil society are preparing to thousands of Egyptian young people to observe the elections, despite repeated governmental objections.
These groups are saying that, if the regime does not intend to set the election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process should not be a problem.
The response of the regime is that any external monitoring is a violation of the Egyptian sovereignty and national observers are an insult to the integrity of the judges.
That argument was void but quickly when the association of the magistracy announced that it supported the presence of observers of civil society.
or that the system of Mubarak is afraid of the internal and external demands rising to hold free and fair elections, or that it is, quite simply, unable to clean up the party of their natural inclination to fraud, the current signals are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.
In the meantime, the Egyptian men are experiencing the emotion, for the first time, to challenge the tyranny and to enjoy a space new-found freedom.
I envy of Europe towards the dollar
The coins may become the centre, not only of commercial transactions, but of a diplomatic and political disputes.
When this happens, the commercial transactions are made more difficult and are subject to greater uncertainty.
the politicisation of the money for the depression of inter-war was economically devastating.
But there have been more recent cases of a perverse struggles of coins.
60 years the international monetary system was made at the centre of a political guerrilla movement.
Each side has had various theories and explanations right about what happened.
The European (in particular the French) complained that General Charles de Gaulle called the "exorbitant privilege 'of the US dollar.
The general and its monetary gurú, Jacques rueff, argued that the USA used the status of the dollar as the main reserve currency caused by the regime of the type of fixed exchange rate of Bretton Woods to have deficits and to pay their military ventures abroad (at that time, Vietnam).
France called a monetary reform that put an end to the special role of the dollar and tried to be repeated the gold standard, for then very discredited.
The European started a long discussion on the advantages of monetary union, achievement which would allow them to monitor the expensive dollar to face.
But, from the American point of view, the international role of dollar was a trap.
Other countries could change their exchange rates and this gave greater competitiveness of its exports.
The government of the United States was powerless in the face of a devalued the yen, which feed the belief that the rest of the world, have used the dollar to attack the manufacturing base of the USA.
The administration Nixon reached the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was monetary unilateralism: so radical a monetary expansion that other countries were forced to adjust their exchange rates.
These battles, long forgotten, have suddenly become very topical.
The world is no longer has a system of type of fixed exchange rate, but the dollar is still the main reserve currency Spice floating Bretton Woods.
For us, the role of reserve of the dollar is a potential threat, but for the rest of the world, it is another example of the neoimperialistic hegemonic ambition of the USA.
In this decade China has been the scene of Japan in the 1960s, maintaining the kind of low change to encourage the growth of its exports.
Consequently, it is the objective of the complaints of the US by unfair competition and their efforts to force an adjustment of the exchange rate, which means that the Americans to buy toys, equipment and clothing of Chinese production.
The manufacturers of the United States have agreed that the Chinese underclothes constitute a threat in the style of American life.
In the meantime, the European - particularly the French) complain about large deficits in the USA and, once again, the argument of de Gaulle is fashionable than the rest of the world is paying the wars of the USA.
Some European suggest that Asian central banks should have a greater part of their reserves in euros, which is a response to the failed attempt by the general to force the United States sold dollars and received gold.
The 60 ended in breaches of the "system 'and in an important financial turbulence, accompanied by an inflationary increases in the price of basic products.
All have been injured, and the role of the USA in world affairs, received a major blow.
If it happened now, a similar collapse would probably have a different effect.
The current system of floating kind is more solid and the costs of the adjustments are distributed in a different way.
Most of the Americans do not suffer from too much by the dramatic fall in the dollar, as the seller of foreign goods must adjust their prices on the market in the United States.
The Asian economies are growing vigorously and their central banks are accumulating qualifications of debt in the USA.
It is possible to continue with this policy, because the alternative would be a sudden setback in the competividad of its export sectors in the most important of the American market.
This gives us more time to deal with a deficit of current account which, in the long term, is untenable.
The most dynamic areas of the world, North America and Asia, we are bound by a pact which will ensure the continuity of the central role of the US dollar.
The Americans will continue to accumulate debt, because we want the Asians to it.
to break the Pact would go against the interests of both parties.
This is not American unilateralism, since it means to work with Asia.
But for Europeans, who are excluded from the Pact, this is seen as a monetary and economic unilateralism.
In the meantime, the lifting of the euro against the dollar creates great hardship for exporters of European manufacturing.
However, Europe cannot do much to ease the situation.
In fact, the first casualty of the new monetary fight will be.
The answers that was no longer in the 60 (to revive the gold standard, or the invention of a common European currency) seem to be very useful.
To have a single currency has not provided a substantial protection.
The old version of the European response, which the sicólogos would call "envy the dollar ', will only become serious.
It will be called upon to structural and demographic the European Central Bank to extend its monetary basis, as if to emulate the dollar the answer to all the industrial problems were, affecting Europe.
But a moment's reflection I must remind us that probelmas of Europe cannot be resolved by means of the monetary manipulation.
We need to see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privileges of the USA as what they are: a way to counteract the fundamental need to be capable of Europe.
So that the envy of the dollar here to stay, and it will become even more as the value of green euro notes is falling, without substantial adverse effects on the people who make them and employment.
A policy epidemic
The Americans, such as the citizens of many other countries of the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some public servants.
It few surprises us - although some disappoints) that a position of federal judge is granted or of a high level of a candidate country that is evidence of loyalty over principles which are important for the party of President and Prime Minister.
But almost everyone agrees that science are one thing, and this, the United States is becoming an instructive example for the rest of the world.
The scientific appointments should be based on objective criteria for training, capacity and action.
Of course, it is legitimate to ask for a future Secretary of human health and services (ssh) on its position on abortion.
But to put to the test of a political commitment to those who have been appointed to participate in scientific advisory committees is totally out of place.
In the same way, membresía in the bodies to carry out a review of the scientific proposals of their partners (process which is fundamental to the scientific progress) would certainly have to be free of barriers which are not linked to the professional qualifications.
Unfortunately, the scientists in the EU are becoming more and more with barriers of that kind.
The last autumn, the science magazine published a number of articles relating to this issue.
It narrated mass replacement of the members of the Advisory Committee of the National Centre for the environmental health, which is part of the Centre for the prevention and control of diseases (CDC by its stands in English), without consulting the director of the centre.
other similar cases have occurred in the advisory committee on poisoning lead and its prevention, the advisory committee on protection of human research and the advisory committee on genetic tests.
The epidemic of current ideology in which they are closed or the advisory committees are restored with new members and is subject to the candidates to loyalty evidence does nothing for some observers again.
Civil servants of the ssh say that it is' a fairly common practice '.
And it is not a common practice in the United States, or at least it did not use it.
In any case, which is very worrying is not that the Bush administration to examine the candidates to see whether they are compatible with its' values'.
The most worrying is the detail that has reached the enquiries about ideology, which they are invading areas that could be immune to this kind of manipulation.
In fact, perhaps the most revealing of the growing political epidemic was the change of staff of the section of studies of the National Institute for Security and occupational health, to assess the grants to study the injuries in the workplace.
It may be that the advisory committees have been vulnerable in the past to occasional manoeuvres of this kind.
After all, they are the ones who recommend lineamientos that politicians may or may not be taken into account.
However, the study paragraphs?
In October 2002, science published an editorial signed by David michaels and a group of colleagues.
Several were former distinguished civil servants who have been involved in some of the committees concerned, and offered a valuable perspective on the matter, on the basis of their own experience.
The article itself was interesting, but what happened after it was still further.
It started a letter avalanche of scientists who related similar experiences.
a candidate for membership of the coordinating committee of the investigations into dystrophy ostentatious belonging to the national institutes, said that a Member of the staff of the White House questioning that.
After responding to a number of questions about their opinions on the various policies of the Bush administration, none of them relating to the work of the Committee was asked if you support the policy of the President on embryonic stem cells.
In a letter, a distinguished Professor of psychiatry and psychology narrated that he had received a request from the White House about his nomination to participate in the National Council of drug abuse.
The person who telephoned him to inform him that he had to investigate it for "decisive if had points of view which could be embarrassing for the President '.
According to Professor, the official of the White House asked a series of questions and to take account of it.
An example of this: "you take two out of three does the President is opposed to the needle exchanges - for the intravenous drug users) on moral grounds, irrespective of the outcome '.
Subsequently, the exchange gave a more laughable turn.
The official asked to name one if it had voted by Bush, and after hearing that no, he asked: 'why you to the President did not support'.
That happens in dictatorships, not in the democracies.
The objective of a scientific advisory committee is to give advice balanced balances and for the process of political decisions.
There is nothing to be gained from a great deal, and lose-when policy result is put forward, which is needed.
It is for that reason that the decisions on what research projects, they will have to be always support, have taken on the basis of studies on the part of couples, not of politicians.
In fact, the applicable statute for this - the federal law of committees consultative-demands specifically that the committees are balanced and that "are not unduly influenced by the authority which appointed them '.
The Secretary of human health and services of the EU, Tommy Thompson, and the office of staff of the White House should give an example to the rest of the world.
They can do: complying with the law very easily.
The murder in Moscow
It is time to put an end to the illusion that the 'dictatorship of the law' of Putin did that Russia post-Communist was less chaotic.
The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and more courageous journalists in Russia, a woman who has dared to make the savage murders committed by the Russian forces in Chechnya, is the final proof that President Putin did no more than to provide an ordinary dictatorship, with the usual contempt for the law.
It is appropriate that the world, especially Europe, considers this acceptance.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Germany is drawing up a policy on the German Russian relations / that religion indifference in the face of the illegality of Putin in the national interests of the most powerful Member of the European Union will do.
But the indifference is peace when it encourages Putin to implement its anarchic form in the international struggle, as in its present campaign between the economy of Georgia.
The murder of Politkovskaya generated a frightening sense of déjà vu: at the peak of the KGB, people simply disappears in Russia de Putin.
The murder of Politkovskaya is the third death with political borders within three weeks.
ziganshin Enver, the main engineering of BP Russia, was killed by a firearm in Irkutsk on 30 September.
Andrey Kozlov, lieutenant governor of the Central Bank of Russia that led to a campaign against the financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.
The fact that the public prosecutor of Russia, general Yuri chaika, took on the investigation of the murder of Politkovskaya, as happened with the murder of Kozlov, does not create expectations, as a participation at such a high level in any real democracy would do.
In fact, the participation of the highest level of the Russian Government is almost a guarantee that they will never be the murderers.
The murder of Politkovskaya is a particularly grim omen if one considers that was a strong criticism of the President of Russia.
In its articles for one of the few independent newspapers that are in Moscow, novaya gazeta, and in his book 'Putin's Russia: life in a lack of democracy' (Russia de Putin: life in a democracy in crisis) and 'dirty war: to Russian Journal in Chechnya' (a dirty war: a Russian Journal in Chechnya), Politkovskaya drawing on the dissipation of the freedoms which is a mark of the identification of presidency of Putin.
As is shown by the exile of the former media employers Boris berezovsky and Vladimir gusinky, and the encarcelación of oil tycoon Mr Khodorkovsky, three destinations are the enemies of Putin: exile, the prison or the grave.
I am not accusing the government of Putin of the murder in the pay of Politkovskaya.
After all, as a research journalist outraged many people in addition to Mr Putin, between what is nothing less than the present Chechen Prime Minister, Ramzan Kadyrov, to which he accused to implement a policy of extorsivos abductions.
But even if the partners of Vladimir Putin did not have anything to do with the Centre, with the murder of Politkovskaya in the lift their department of Moscow, the President's disregard for the law gave rise to the climate in which the murder was carried out.
As the murder of the Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Beckett in the cathedral many centuries ago, the offence was committed in the clear knowledge that we would like the king.
As regards what it represented Politkovskaya -- the responsibility of a democratic press to question the Kremlin and its policies, the government should have ensured that bad happened.
Russia de Putin has already lost 12 prestigious journalists who were killed in the last six years.
None of these crimes have been resolved, which would not be the case if the 'dictatorship of the law' of Putin was more than a strategy of public relations.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin reached the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals.
On the one hand, the world is a young and educated leader which promises to modernise to Russia, particularly in terms of align its legal practices and compliance with the law in the international rules.
On the other hand, the President notes in silence as long as their former colleagues in the security service FSB Russia - the former KGB) do not offer any security of those who were murdered and send out a series of known causes of espionage against environmental journalists, scientists and activists.
between these "neon spying 'contains the journalist Grigori Pasko, the expert on arms control Igor Sutyagin, the diplomat Valentine's Day moiseyev, physicist Valentine's Day danilov and others.
The so-called civilising influence of being a Western partner -- while chairing a G8 Summit in St Petersburg, for example, seems to have been allayed in intrigues it of the Kremlin de Putin.
Once again, the explanatory statement to the Western values generated a Potemkin city does Russia present / displays a front of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the cardboard backdrop they apply the same arbitrary animals.
The threat to the world is that the anarchy of Putin is being exported.
In all the outside closer to Russia, a form of criminalized diplomacy is legitimacy.
Let us look at the attempt of Putin unlawfully to manipulate the previous presidential elections in the Ukraine and published / displayed intermittent criminal charges against the leader of the opposition yuliya Tymoshenko.
Let us look at the separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia which exist only thanks to the support of the Kremlin.
Let us look at the way in which the Kremlin is trying to blackmail on to its neighbours, threatening interrupting their energy supply.
All police knows that when the criminal behaviour is overlooked, the criminals, become more intrepid.
It is high time that the world acknowledges Vladimir Putin and it is therefore: a man who is retrotrayendo to Russia in the shadows.
So that the world today must take account of the old maximum in Latin tacet qui consentere videtur -- silence means consent and ask ourselves whether it is wise to allow in silence the building of a power that makes Putin superpower without law.
gaseoducto towards the Russian Empire
Gerhard Schroeder, in less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that gaseoducto is building from Russia, through the Baltic to Germany and from there to Western Europe.
In many countries, Schroeder it would now be accused of the crime of conflict of interests.
its apparent lack of ethics is growing by the fact that, at this precise moment, it is threatening Russia disrupting the supply of gas in the Ukraine, if that country does not give in to the demands of the price of gas giant ownership of the Kremlin, Gazprom.
The strategic role of Russia is obvious: to stop the supply of gas to Ukraine also means to interrupt a large part of the gas to Europe, because some of its more gaseoductos pass through the Ukraine.
By avoiding the Ukraine and Poland, and, of course, the Baltic countries, new gaseoducto promises to give more weight to the Kremlin in its desire to be replaced regionally.
President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of the former KGB soon will not have to worry about Western Europe when they are deciding what so hard to press the Postcommunist neighbours Russia.
Europe would have to really give Putin this new imperial weapon?
or, even worse, could Russia to use this weapon against the European Union is committed to the energy?
The fact that a former German Chancellor is going to direct the company that can give Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is a testament to the dangerous complacency of Europe for the neoimperialistic ambitions of Putin.
Certainly, the Russian media have become aware of the increasing dependence of the Europe of the Russian energy.
In fact, they wallow with her: after we integrate and we increase our business common of gas, the Russian editorialistas write, Europe remains silent on the subject of human rights.
Putin expresses this position of more oblique way with its commitment to carry out the vital spark a "independent policy '.
What does he mean by this is that Russia should be 'independent' of the moral concerns and human rights of the Western democracies.
Perhaps some European leaders really believe that maintaining the comfortable prosperity of the Union is to keep quiet in the field of human rights and other issues which distort the Kremlin.
Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, about 'commercial' issues such as the expropriation of YUKOS, but the Kremlin is a price to our values or criticism of the mistake made by Russia -- in, for example, the contaminated blood Chechnya of the European seem to be prepared to silence the mouth not to face the possibility that there is an increase in the price of energy products, or even a blockade, like the one that Ukraine is now.
As Mr Putin rearranges the reduction, make to the Duma to their will, the expectations of the European Union greater communitization of Russia would have to give in.
The Russia which Putin is building has mutado of post-Soviet hopes of freedom to a bastion of gas and oil for its new elite former KGB.
In fact, Matthias warnig, the chief executive of the association of gaseoducto that Schroeder will preside, is a friend of long time of Putin.
The Wall Street Journal informed at the beginning of this year that warnig, to address the Russian branch of the Dresdner Bank agent of the Stasi, the secret police in East Germany, and I knew Putin at the end of the 1980s when the Russian President was in eastern Germany as spying on the KGB.
The fact that the Russians have a government of former members of the KGB, for those who lack of compassion and intolerance to disagree, is the rule, reflects the depletion of disturbance in the last twenty years.
Now the Kremlin seems to think that what is good for the common Russians is good for the independent countries, too, it is the smaller and weaker countries compassion will not be available to them once Russia gets the tools to intimidate them, to keep them and to threaten them the possibility of a blocking power.
As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, I often had to support these threats.
The European Union has signed a number of agreements with Russia, including that of 'common area of freedom and justice'.
The Kremlin is very good to pretend that idealism.
its control on Eastern Europe always imposed on the Treaty basis' of friendship ', and the Soviet invasion in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968 was "fraternal' missions.
But we need to see how the brutal treatment to the Chechens, the employer abuses Putin that 'common' area: Mr Khodorkovsky in prison, the persecution of the NGOs', the false accusations against the colideresa of orange revolution from last year, yuliya Tymoshenko, on the part of the Russian military prosecutors.
If the European seriously take their common area for human rights and freedom, must recognise that these values are not shared by the calculating officials of the Kremlin de Putin.
The same applies when it is considered to Russia as a partner in the fight against terrorism.
It is true that in discussing the land of the 'red terror', with countless crimes without penalty of the Soviet era, and which is blood signs of Lithuania to the Caucasus, it will provide a reliable aid to tackle the threats to the world of Iran and North Korea?
It is more likely that the minds of the Kremlin cold will simply exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase its destructive power and influence.
For decades, my region of Europe was left at the mercy of evil.
For that reason, I cannot remain silent while Europe is blindly towards a new peace.
We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, have learnt from our heritage that behind every diplomatic act of Russia is an imperial ambition.
European Western countries, which they have got rid of this legacy, would have to listen to our warnings.
The dependence on Russia - if its current face is that of "the supposedly charismatic one 'Gerhard schroeder- only will even take the abyss.
The bullets and the votes of Iraq
At the time of the war in Iraq began in 2003, the Bush administration had very ambitious plans: as in Germany and Japan on after 1945, a long and peaceful occupation was envisaged, during which the increasing oil production would ensure prosperity increasing as the democratic structures were built one by one.
The basis would be a liberal constitution, even posmoderna, however, and the guarantee of a 25% of curules of Parliament for women.
In Iraq today, there is no peace and prosperity.
The Constitution that will be put to the vote the 15 October includes this rule of 25%, but, on the other, far from being a Liberal.
The key provision (Article 2) that no law can contradict "of the basic rules of Islam 'is in violation of the basic principle of the parliamentary sovereignty and will prevent the legislation it complies with international standards.
For example, the age of sexual consent cannot be set at the top of the nine years, because the same Mohammed had a wife of nine years.
It is evident that the children of nine years are also adult according to the criminal law and are subject to the maximum penalty of a, shall we say, to be another religion.
In broader terms, the Shiites can use that willingness to put their ayatollahs above the elected Parliament, as in Iran, because there are only allowed to determine the "rules' of Islam.
The Liberal foreigners and the few Iraqis this Islamic provision is of concern to them all, but the opposition of the general Sunnite to the Constitution is aimed at other provisions: the federalist exclusion of the Ba'ath party 'sadamista' of political life and government and provisions which deal with the 18 Iraqi provinces and allow them to be combined to form a regional governments.
The rule of the exclusion is a personal matter for the elite of the Sunnite -- including thousands of employers, profesionistas, even artists -- because, with a few exceptions, all were members of the Ba'ath.
In theory, the constitutional ban could be interpreted as apply only to the future.
In practice, however, now administrative rules are being applied to exclude from the so-called States' high level 'of the Ba'ath from any kind of governmental employment and thousands have been affected.
Perhaps the Sunnite would accept the provisions federalist if they were applied only to the Kurds.
You know that the alternative is not a return to the centralism, but the secession of the three provinces of Kurdish majority of dahuk, Arbil and as sulaymaniyah to form an independent Kurdistan, with its own property, army (the pesh merga) and oil production of Kirkuk -- that has the second place in reserves of Iraq.
The Sunnite reject it takes for the Shiites because brothers consider Arab who have always accepted the Sunnite government in the past and will return it to accept -- unless they have their own government.
That is what the new Constitution would allow us, because the provinces of Shiite majority in the south -- where it is most of the oil reserves in Iraq -- can form their own regional government.
The usual style of the Middle East, the Sunnite leaders disappointed and unhappy with the Constitution threaten violence now.
But the federalism is not the reason why the Islamists Sunnite who preach the supremacy launch their murderous attacks.
The opposition is more fundamental: they do not accept the democratic principle of government of the majority.
Instead they seek to restore the Government of the Sunnite minority.
For the Islamists, and in any case the Shiites deserve the death, on apostates.
a Shiite leader, moqtada Sadr, are also firmly opposed federalism.
Their supporters are the Shiites, illiterate in their majority, poorer and violent of slums in Baghdad and other places where the 'mahdi military service' fought against the American troops in 2004, even though these were protecting the Shiites in the attacks of Sunnite.
As a very young priest who derives its authority from his father dead -- an Ayatollah populist -- live Ayatollahs in Iraq, which underestimate their ignorance and violence, they are against Sadr.
Sadr cannot compete in any way with them as far as religious authority, which is why it often takes an Arab nationalist position against them, bearing in mind that higher Shiite priest, Ayatollah sistani, Persian, nonarab.
Similarly, it reiterates its supporters that al-Hakim, who heads the Supreme Council for the Islamic revolution in Iraq and their military service 'badr' exiles was subsidised in Iran -- and many of them are fighting on the side of Iran in the long and painful Iran-Iraq war -- until the Americans' brought them back '.
Sadr is against the federalism, because a Shiite regional government should obey your enemies, sistani and the Supreme Council, and maintains, would fall under the Iranian influence.
In order to highlight its message, Sadr sent to your men to attack the badr military service, successfully in Baghdad, where the mahdi many, but without it in Najaf, where it is hated to Sadr by the destruction caused by the last year -- until the Americans massacred their men.
It was wrong to deal with Sadr as bandit does the simple political arithmetic is now saying that it will probably be the central element to decide the result of the vote that will be carried out in October on the Constitution.
In order to reject it and to force to new elections for a constituent assembly, opponents need a majority of two thirds in at least three provinces.
It is likely that the Sunnite only succeed in two provinces, but Sadr orders his supporters of the slums of Baghdad that local Sunnite vote together with 'no', it might mean that they won in the capital, those who are opposed to the Constitution, which would ensure its defeat.
As a political rowdy, Sadr is, of course, prepared to be sold.
The last year sought to him for murder.
Now it wants money, recognition as a statesman and humiliation, at least implicit, sistani and the Supreme Council.
I could get offers and perhaps the negotiations have already begun.
But some Shias whom it attacks with words and bullets have thousands of supporters armed and think that I just bullets should be available.
The fall of the secret police
As I could see the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc gyurcsany when recorded confession that his government was coming up unrest, openness in the government is not something that is easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.
such as Hungary, Romania has sometimes post-Communist fought to increase the transparency and honesty in which it was one of the closed societies more in the world.
While we fought, the continuing secrecy gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
However, finally, there was a real progress towards the frankness, recognised by the European Union, when it gave the green light to join the EU at the beginning of the year 2007.
In addition to achieve what the EU today as a "functioning market economy ', there were fundamental political and legal changes, which I myself monitored as Minister of Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the funding of political parties to a clash of the judiciary.
The judicial reform, as well, are helping to avoid corruption.
recusaciones against former ministers of the Council of Ministers and Ministers in office, the members of the European Parliament, judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, police and customs inspectors, and other servants as well as directives of private companies were issued.
Also, new standardised forms for declarations of assets were introduced and I financial interests of anyone who has an official position in the government, Parliament, the government and local authorities and the judicial system.
The new declarations are detailed in Europe and, more importantly, they become public.
Romania's progress is confirmed by a report broadcast at the beginning of this month, which shows that citizens' access to information from the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent to that of the established democracies.
In fact, the report, transparency and silence, carried out by the pro-justice initiative of the open society (available in www.justiceinitiative.org) indicates that, in a way, the old democracies have something to learn from the new ones: some government agencies in Romania are more sensitive to the orders of information for the citizens who other comparable agencies in France and Spain.
Specifically, in Romania replied to 60% of the published / displayed orders, compared to 31% in France and 24% in Spain.
Other countries that have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, where the law of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after that were adopted in Romania.
However, to get access to sensitive information in democracies in transition is not always easy, and I can take account of it in my previous job as a champion of human rights for the Helsinki Committee of Romania.
We often had to resort to cut to force a disclosure of information, for the freedom of information act to 2001 of Romania.
For example, even when we gained a case that he had to do with access to the registers of interception of telephone calls authorised by the public prosecution service, the prosecution service simply ignored the judicial order.
We made / displayed a civil action against the prosecution service and the judge imposed a fine by every day that withholding information.
But just as we caught the attention of resources was that the data were released -- that detailed the amount of interception of telephone calls authorised in 10 years before that, against whom and how long.
With its publication, Romania began to move away from their past dominated by the securitate.
Today, within the government, I am aware that sharing information to the public sometimes it is difficult.
But when it is necessary to implement painful reforms, there is no alternative.
We could not have put the economic and political reforms that are worth an entry to us as a Member of the EU if we had not been submitted for our scrutiny public policies, and to accept the greater public participation in the decision-making process, which inevitably goes hand in hand with this openness.
What is more, this has become a sine qua non of the democratic government throughout the world.
When the United States made the law of freedom of information in 1996, it was added to the exclusive company in Sweden and Finland.
Today there are almost 65 countries which have this kind of legislation.
In Romania, who are fighting for a law of freedom of information made full use of it.
As part of the review of pro-justice initiative, to those who requested information from the government of Romania voluntarily offered the type of information which would have been unthinkable to promulgate a few years ago, just before.
The Romanian Ministry of Defence, for instance, revealed the number of staff of the armed forces, who died in 2003, as well as the causes of death (including 13 suicides, two activity and two deaths in action in Afghanistan).
In the same way, it was asked to the reduction of Bucharest that information about the number of judges disciplined since 2000 principles, even the arguments for any apply sanctions.
The Court passed the ask the Supreme Council of the courts, which provided a complete answer: a list of four pages of all the sanction judges, with details of the reasons and the sanctions.
This type of information is as much a product as a driving force for the continued reform.
It was not always easy for those who are in the government, and there is still a critical reservations concerning sensitive documents.
But, in the case of the former Communist bloc, the benefits which involved the transparency have been denied.
At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secrecy remains a threat to the values, principles of democratic governance, and that only the constant vigilance, both in the democracies laid down in young people, to prevent their limits are transferred.
to save the life of the trees.
No one can spend a day without using a product comes from a jungle.
In more than most people you realise, the paper on which we wrote, the water from our faucets, medicines to heal, wood that building our houses and furniture, all are due to forests.
The forests produce fresh air that we breathe, and are the habitats of endangered species.
They also provide leisure opportunities to us, more and more important in our complex world.
approximately 1.5 billion of poor people living in rural areas of the world depends on the forests for basic needs as food and oil.
However, deforestation is continuing.
Every year, we lose 14.6 million hectares (145,000 kms. square) of forests, an area around four times the size of Switzerland.
The irresponsible forest management, highlighted by the bad regulation and application of the laws on the part of governments, and the markets that will encourage the illegal logging are conspiring to end the most valuable and threatened forests in the world.
Once the forests are beginning to disappear, usually a evils set to take place, environmental, social and economic that in any way affects us all.
The island of Sumatra, in Indonesia, is a good example.
The manufacturers of pulp and role are carrying out a rampant and illegal destruction of forests, which contain the rich diversity of sources of the world.
It is likely that, in the way sources still disappear to discover, as well as endangered species such as the rhino and the elephant in Sumatra, and orangután.
When the forests in Sumatra disappear, complete communities of people will be with a little good place to live and without a decent way to earn a living.
Worse still, the distortion of the global markets, caused by the produced trading of cheap and illegal way produces disadvantages for companies which demonstrate social responsibility.
The developing countries are losing 15 billion dollars a year of income from taxation, due to the illegal logging.
To make matters worse, the demand for wood for reconstruction after tsunami last year is stepping up the already unsustainable demand that exists on the forests in Sumatra.
Similar threats to the forests are obvious in Amazonia and the river basin of the Congo.
The recent evaluation of ecosystems for milenio (eem) of the UN, shows that the forests of these and other regions of critical importance are badly in open decline due to use, and that it will continue to unless serious action to be taken.
The information distributed by the Government of Brazil indicates that the deforestation of the irreplaceable forests in Amazonia, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, reached the 2.6 million hectares (around 26, 000 square kms.) last year, taking the deforested area full of the Amazon a 17%.
But the battle against deforestation is not lost.
Various organisations, environmentalists and businesses concerned about the state of the forests of the world are uniting forces to produce reforestation and to improve the management of the forests.
For example, the World Fund for naturaleza (WWF) and the World Bank have helped the Government of Brazil to launch an initiative to set up more than 17 million hectares (179,000 kms. square) new of protected forest areas, such as national parks.
The alliance between the WWF, and the World Bank also motivated to the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer these protected areas for ever.
Similarly, a meeting between the governments of the countries of the Mediterranean in the Congo, which resulted in an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible handling of the forests.
This in turn led to an initiative of 53 million dollars for the State Department in the United States to promote the forest conservation of the Congo.
Ever since the governors met for the first time in 1999, 3.5 million hectares - more than 33,700 kms. square) of new protected areas have been created in the river basin of the Congo.
However, given the effects of Asian tsunami December, the weight of the evidence provided by the eem and the statistics on deforestation in thickly wooded areas of key importance, our efforts must continue.
The World Bank and the WWF recently committed themselves to be united in an effort to help to reduce the rate of global deforestation in a 10% by the year 2010, and to work with the other institutions of the public and private sectors for the achievement of ambitious objectives of forest conservation.
The studies of the WWF show that if the forests of the world are divided into a combination of jobs and types (which includes protected areas, commercial forests handled responsibly and recovered thickly wooded areas) we can respond to the global forest product requirements, while at the same time that we retain a significant environmental and social funds for the foreseeable future.
The leaders of business, the governments and civil society organisations must play their part in realising that vision.
are fanatical Saudi?
The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have led to many question not only the prospect of survival of the guiding House of the sauds, but which are asked if the UK is basically disfuncional and destructive.
In a way, it seems that the Saudi society has produced a torrent of violent religious fanaticism which is inspired by the extreme.
The fact that 15 of the 19 kidnappers of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States were Saudi crystallised a sense of vision, data, which regards the Kingdom as a beacon of authoritarianism and intolerance.
In some ways, this perception is true, but it is not possible to apply a general to the Saudi government.
On the contrary, it would be a serious mistake to believe that the fanatical fundamentalism completely defines the Saudi attitudes towards the religion.
between 2001 and 2003, I was part of a team that a wide-ranging study of the values in Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt and Jordan.
Our surprising results offer a clear picture of the Saudi attitudes.
In comparison with the respondents Members from other countries of the Middle East, the Saudi were in general less religious, and their attitudes towards democracy and the marriages agreed also point out an underlying moderate aware.
It is clear that in the four countries, the religiosidad is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of those surveyed says to believe in God, life after the death, and in the sky and hell.
But the Saudi appear to be less religious than their colleagues in the Muslim faith.
The sixty and two per cent of Saudi are described as monks, compared to 82% of the Iranians, 85% of the Jordanians and 98% of the Egyptian men.
The Americans also seem to be much more religious that Saudi, with a 81% of them describing themselves as such.
Part of this variation can be explained by the differences between nations, as regards what it means to be religious.
For example, the Americans can define the religiosidad differently to the inhabitants of the Middle East, with perhaps a minor accession to the religious beliefs that normal in Islamic countries.
This could also partly explains the difference between the Muslim countries.
But the gap between what the Saudi define as religiosidad, on the one hand, and the definition of Iranian, Jordanian and the Egyptian men, on the other, are so great that it calls into question the predominant perception that Saudi Arabia is a religious and highly conservative society.
In fact, the actions speak more than words: only 28% of Saudi said to participate in the weekly religious services, compared with 27% of the Iranians, 44% of the Jordanians, 42% of Egyptian and 45% of the Americans.
These results, even if they move in the opposite direction from the people's perceptions of the Saudi culture, are less so than they appear.
For a long time the sociologists of religion, they have argued that, in a monolithic religious atmosphere or when the religious institutions are closely linked to the State, it religiosidad declines to the general public.
It makes sense to think that, when the state authorities make strict codes of conduct compulsory, people tend to rebel and to move away from the formally sanctioned religious institutions.
It is therefore not surprising that Egyptian and the Jordanian, which they live in countries where the State does not force to exercise the mercy, are more than Iranian religious or Saudi ones, who must face 'virtuous' a local policy backed by the state.
On the subject of the marriage many Saudi even expressed liberal vision surprising.
The respondents were almost split in the same way on the issue of the agreed marriages, with almost half to support the idea that the marriage should be based on the consent of the parents, while a 48% prefer to love as the basis of the marriage.
Given the deep-rooted segregation by gender and the domination of the parents, this result seems to show a strong desire for greater freedom of choice in particular which traditionally has been a decision that takes place in the family.
Finally, the Saudi turn out to be enthusiastic supporters of democracy, contradicting again, the people's image of the Saudi conservatism.
The respondents Saudi, 58% considered democracy as the best way of government, a 23% did not agree, and an 18% do not give an opinion.
The majority support of democracy in a country which does not have a secular and nationalist history seems somewhat in opposition to which it would be possible to have a notion.
In fact, the support for democracy rests with a number of other liberal attitudes that we find in Saudi Arabia.
Those in favour of democracy tend to be less religious, more secular, more tolerant towards others, more critical of the action of the public sector and to be concerned about the western cultural invasion.
Beyond the data for the study, history has shown that the liberal ideas becoming more popular when a despotic monarch rules to the people in alliance with 'establishment' religious.
At the end of the nineteenth century a strong liberal tide arose in Ottoman Syria, in response to the religious despotism of the sultán abdulhamid.
At the same time, it was in Iran a secular and anticlerical movement in favour of constitutional politics, a reaction to the absolutist alliance between the shahs quajar and religious institucionalidad.
In view of the current similarities between these historical precedent and conditions in Saudi Arabia, we should not rule out the possibility of a reform.
Now, the information from the studies suggest that I would not be surprised to see the Saudi demanding political a more transparent and less interventionist religion.
The European museum
By the end of the nineteenth century, Europe basically saw Asia as a source of inspiration for the artists or a centre of imperial ambition.
The Asians, on the other hand, see Europe as a model of modernity, in Japan meiji, or a barometer of decline, as in China.
a century later, the Japanese economic miracle was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of a place of rapid technological and industrial progress.
Now, in the early years of the 21st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and Asia in Europe is changing dramatically, at a time when the economies of Asia are up, while the European Union has got bogged down in a crisis of identity and confidence.
A number of important Asians, such as the former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, we have seen the European that if continues with its present course, Europe will quickly become irrelevant for everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
A prominent Chinese entrepreneur who divides their time between Hong Kong and London was even more specific.
In a private meeting of high leaders employers and politicians in Paris, a few weeks ago, he said: "you Europeans are becoming a third world country, devote time to debate the wrong issues -- the Constitution, the beneficient state, the crisis of the pensions and, as a matter of course, give the wrong replies to the questions raised by '.
The views of the European of Asia in general, and of China in particular, are more complex and somewhere between the lucid adaptation to a new competitor and respected and the purely ideological rejection.
In May, in 1968, in France, the students -- or some of them, by less than took to the streets to invent a new world dreamt of Maoist China, a China in the means of the brutal cultural revolution and meaningless.
its absurd obsession and Barroca were both the product of the ignorance of the crimes of Mao as the result of platitude in an affluent society where unemployment almost did not exist.
Today, however, their heirs criticise Asian capitalist model openly.
Yesterday, China was a anticapitalist North for the utopian revolutionaries does today, we in Europe has been an ultra-liberal nemesis for a new generation of utopian reactionaries -- the defenders of the status.
The students who stated in the streets of Paris recently, do not want to become such as China or the Indians are they reject the logic of globalisation and refuse to give up social guarantees that both cost to win.
The European economic elites receive to China and India in a very different way.
Today, they are fully aware that their slightly nostalgic post-colonial vision of these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
China and India was genuine competitors who deserve respect, if not admiration.
The quality, the costs and the time of delivery in the automotive industry, for instance, is coming to the European level.
Europe has an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but the business world class that are emerging, particularly in India, every time, are in a better position to contracting withdrawn from the mit and Harvard, while, at the same time, the costs of cheap labour and, therefore, the global competitiveness.
Unfortunately, although the European leaders to recognise the Asian challenge, they do not know how to use it as a test of truth in the irresistible process of globalisation and as a call to arms in social and economic terms.
To tell the truth, it would be right to say that the European politicians, with a few exceptions, such as Tony Blair, took in adjusting their vision of the world, in agreement with the revolutionary pace of change in Asia.
caught between a lack of strategic vision in the long term, and its obsession with short-term interests, the political leaders of Europe, to a large extent, did not manage to win the respect of their Asian partners, unlike the European companies, which it is to them much better with the Asian eyes.
Of course, in a continent which could not bury their past and practically close the door to the nationalist scaremongering, the European Union is often perceived by the Asians as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.
But the action of Europe still declining, would survive this perception?
Perhaps the Asians would have to take account of the European model as a political version of Venice -- a place at almost visit with nostalgia for their glory last and admiration for their quality of museum.
Red and blue ones
The change of Condoleezza Rice by Secretary of State Colin Powell on the state of the EU shows that the recent presidential election of that country is still a strong impact.
But to understand what it says to us the choice on the United States is important not only for the Americans, but also to the world.
The presidential vote of this year is proof that the American democracy has a good health, but that some things could be improved.
Contrary to what happened at the elections in 2000, when President Bush lost the people's vote, and as soon as he won the vote in the electoral college, this time imposed by 3.5 million votes.
Although some Democrats remain suffered, cannot seriously be questioned the validity of the victory of Bush.
The United States is still divided in the red Member (republican) and blue Member very (democratic).
If 100.000 votes had been different in the red state from Ohio, John Kerry would be the President - albeit with minority people's vote).
The electoral college was included in the Constitution of the United States to protect the small Member States in a federal system, but it means that the political campaigns are focused on a dozen States where public opinion is very divided.
On a more fundamental level, to choose Presidents without a democratic majority has some unseemly.
For that reason, it is time to hold a serious debate to amend the Constitution in order to abolish the electoral college.
Some observers also complain about the rhetoric and the divisiva propaganda that characterised the campaign.
But must be seen from a historical perspective.
At the time of the founding fathers, the newspapers were extremely partial and George Washington you consternaba the rigour of the political language.
For a large part of its first years -- not to speak of the civil war and reconstruction country, so it was divided and now and the determined thing of the campaign rhetoric reflected the closed and of competition.
At the same time, in spite of the negative propaganda on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a serious format and had a major hearing.
In general, it is likely that a President of a growing economy is reelecto.
In that sense, the astonishing thing in the case of Mr Bush was the very thing that was its majority.
To a large extent to the unpopularity of the war in Iraq.
Kerry tried to do in the war, the low rate of job creation, of the inadequate attention to health and the reduction of duties of Bush to groups of high income the central issues of the campaign, but some observers are that never was a clear message.
Bush talked back with concerns about security against terrorism and cultural populism on issues such as the marriage between homosexuals and the right to abortion.
In the end, the security and cultural populism won to economic populism.
The interpretation of the choice has been influenced by the way out surveys in which it was put to them the voters (having voted on what issues related to them.
The majority (22%) replied that the "moral values', in comparison with 20% which referred to the economy and 19% that terrorism mentioned.
The social Conservatives interpret this, because they are the ones who won the election of President Bush and his agenda must prevail in the coming period of the President.
But a survey of Pew raised a week after the election pointed out that the heading "moral values' covered a wide range of issues, in addition to the right to abortion and the marriage between homosexuals.
In fact, the opinion polls show that 25% of the population support marriage between homosexuals and 35% are in favour of legal civil trade unions for couples of homosexuals (the stance which Kerry defended).
However, to 37% against these marriages, especially at the centre of the country, the issue of red helped to mobilise all those in favour of Bush to go to vote.
More important question is whether the EU is divided irremediably.
The electoral map of red and blue, has given rise to serious and caricatures on the Internet on the secession of the two blue coasts of the red centre of the country.
Some people call "costopía you '.
But the division is not very clear.
Many Member States on both sides won by a narrow margin, and if the map at the level of counties and not of Member reddens, a large part of the country is quite mulberry.
cities in the face of townships and rural areas are a better description than coastline centre.
In fact, the opinion polls indicate that the majority of the Americans are concentrated in the centre measured on the political spectrum and not in the extreme.
But the political elites, such as the militants of parties and the members of the House of Representatives, are often more extremist than the public.
At the beginning, that is amazing, because they have no incentive to move to the rich centre in votes.
But many Members of the House are areas that are safe for their parties and the threat to their re-election is in the main ones, dominated by the groups most activists and extremists of the parties.
This trend is reinforced by the growth of the cable television, which attracts the viewers, by means of controversial programmes of "infotenimiento 'bloggers and of the Internet, which establish fierce controversy without publishing filter.
A reform to change the borders of the electoral districts in order to make them more competitive would help to alleviate the problem, but a few of the Members in office would vote to make changes which might increase the risk of failure.
The closed and the result is that Bush won a mandate for minor change that it seems to think.
In view of the difficult issues of foreign policy, fiscal and social that we are facing, it would do or in turning around to the centre instead of reconciling its conservative basis, but it is still not clear whether there will be to apply the policy of the convictions and pragmatism.
how to get rid of the habit of oil
The Angela Merkel Chancellor into the treatment of climate change a high priority on the agenda of Germany for its presidency of the EU and the G8 Summit, which begin in January.
There is a concrete proposal, sufficiently general so that the world leaders to take account of it and to accept this, and the clear enough to ensure that other governments and companies nothing else understand this: to set a date for the next G8 summit, that the cars EDF oil can no longer move more in the major industrialized countries.
A decision of this kind would have highly positive economic and geopolitical impact.
The real cause of the concerns of today in the field of energy is not the fall of the world's oil reserves, but rather that oil production within the EU of the large consumers - Europe, the United States and China will lapse at the precise moment the growing Asian demand clogs the market.
the stocks available will be concentrated more and more in the Middle East, simply because the supply in the rest of the regions will be completed before.
What is more, the major oil exporters are not prepared to subordinate its policies of investment to the requirements of the market.
Saudi Arabia is trying to manage its oil production of independent way, while Iran scares to potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and their corruption.
Iraq suffers from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia find impediments at every turn.
These four Member States have half of the oil reserves established in the world, and the two thirds of which potentially it would be possible to be exported.
All of this, not the production costs, is the main reason for the high price of oil and the struggles of closure oil contracts in Central Asia and Africa.
To believe that the high price of oil is good because they serve the environment is to ignore some initial data of international policy.
First of all, in many African and Asian countries poorer, imports of oil are part of national significantly higher costs in industrialised countries, which means that economic growth and social development are in danger, at the same time to look at new crises of debt.
The income of the production of oil hamper the reforms in the major exporting countries.
Thank you for your lubricated financial strength, regimes such as those in Venezuela and Iran every time feel less restricted by the international rules.
Just come to the world of the consumer nations, as in the case of China, following the old habits of the industrialised world, with its long history to ignore the abuses of human rights in order to be able to ensure financial agreements with authoritarian regimes and rich in oil.
Only the economic and political heavyweights in the world, the major industrialised countries that continue to be by far the largest oil consumers, can initiate a change at a global level.
The change must begin by the transport sector, which represents more than half of this oil consumption -- a proportion, which probably will increase in the future.
Therefore, the countries of the G8 Summit would have to agree to prevent all car oil from the EDF for 2025 onwards to move around freely.
This decision would not end against individual mobility, but against the dissipation of a limited resource that is needed most urgently to produce plastics.
The political leaders should not privilege any technology in particular.
What is more, it would have to offer the automotive industry incentives to develop alternative technologies that are based on a biomass fuel, hydrogen and to natural gas during a period of transition.
The countries leaders from a political point of view will offer them to the domestic industries, as a collateral benefit, a leading position in the field of energy technology, ensuring future markets.
If necessary, the expected significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions could lead the necessary important turning-point in the international policies in the field of climate change.
But also the economic development comes into play: to cure our 'addiction to' oil would be more oil to the poorest countries, the least developed, and recently industrialised, at the same time that the fall in prices would force and would relieve the geopolitical competition in the energy.
From a political point of view, the benefits would be just as obvious as the capacity of the major oil exporters would be greatly reduced to blackmail the industrialised countries.
This would increase the negotiating power of the international community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia which seriously want to promote political and economic reform from within.
This is a technologically advanced countries, and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is able to propose an initiative of this kind.
Merkel, which has a doctorate in physics and started its political career being Environment Minister (chairing in 1995 the first conference of the framework convention of the United Nations on the climate change), can have more credibility when it comes to dealing with this issue that any of its members of the EU and the G8.
The time come from a courageous show leadership.
The myth of trade and aid
The trade and aid have become words fashionable at international level.
greater assistance (including the cancellation of the debt) and greater access to the markets of rich countries for products from poor countries seem to be in the first place, of the global agenda.
In fact, the debate today is not about what to do and how much to be done and how quickly.
In all this, the clear lessons from the past five decades of economic development, are lost.
Among the most important emphasises the fact that economic development is largely in the hands of the same poor nations.
The countries that have been successful in the recent past, we have achieved through their own efforts.
The aid and access to the rare market time have played a critical role.
Let us take a country that has a free and preferential access to the markets of its larger neighbour, which, in addition, is the most powerful economy in the world.
Let us suppose, on the other hand, that the country can send to millions of its citizens to work on the other side of the border, that is a huge volume of investment and that is fully integrated into the international chains.
In addition, the banking system in the country, it supports the willingness shown by its rich neighbour to serve as a lender of last resort.
globalisation cannot be better, certain?
We now consider a second country.
This is a trade embargo in the largest market in the world, it does not receive foreign aid or any kind of assistance to the West, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and is not allowed to ask for loans of the IMF and the World Bank.
In the case of these external problems were not sufficiently debilitadoras, this economy also has its own obstacles erected to international trade (as trade of state, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions).
As the reader is, it is a real countries: Mexico and Vietnam.
Mexico shares a border of 3000 kilometres from the United States, which is not only you privileged access to the labour markets and of goods, but also of the facility to use funds from the treasury of the EU - as we saw in the crisis of the weight of 1995).
In contrast, the United States had a trade embargo against Vietnam until 1994, establish diplomatic relations up to 1995, and for years after that he did not give treatment of favoured nation to imports of that country.
Vietnam remains outside the WTO.
We now consider its economic action.
Since the tlcan in December 1992, was signed, the economy of Mexico has increased to an average annual rate of barely 1% in terms of per capita.
This is not only very below the level of economic superstars of Asia are, it is also a fraction of the growth of Mexico over the decades which preceded the crisis of the 1982 debt (3,6% annual between 1960 and 1981).
However, Vietnam grew up to an annual rate of 5,6% per capita between the beginning of its economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the EU in 1995, and since then it has continued to grow an accelerated pace of 4,5%.
In Vietnam, a dramatic reduction in poverty given, whereas in Mexico the real wages fell.
Two countries had marked increases in international trade and foreign investment, but the situation is quite different when it more important it is to raise the standard of living, especially those of the poor.
What these examples show is that the internal efforts be imposed on anything to determine the economic fortunes of a country.
All the opportunities that the market for the EU gave Mexico could not resist the consequences of the mistakes of internal policy, especially the inability to produce a real assessment of the exchange rate of the weight and to extend to the rest of the economy, the improvements in productivity achieved in a limited range of export activities.
What matters most is whether a country takes the right strategy for growth.
Without any of the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam apply a strategy focusing on to diversify their economies and improving the productive capacity of its internal suppliers.
The broader experiences of the post-war period of support to the conclusion that the internal policies are extremely important.
South Korea took off at the beginning of the 1960s, not in the external aid was at its peak, but when it was withdrawing gradually.
Taiwan did not receive external aid or preferential access to markets.
China and India, the two economic superstars today, has been a success, to a large extent by means of efforts sui generis of reform.
It is tempting to attribute the rare African successes -- Botswana and Mauritius -- to external demand for their exports (diamonds and clothes, respectively), but that is only part of the story.
Of course, the two countries would be considerably more poor without access to foreign markets.
But, as in other cases of successful development, which distinguishes them are not the external benefits that they have, but its capacity to exploit them.
Look at what other countries have done with their natural resources.
The word 'is mentioned as diamonds just' evokes images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.
Similarly, a few of the elaboradoras areas of exports, which are proliferating in the world have achieved the results which are observed in Mauritius.
None of the above acquits to the rich countries of its responsibility to help.
They can lead the world is less welcoming for corrupt dictators -- for example, sharing more financial information and not to recognise the international contracts to be signed.
Also, in order to increase the number of working poor countries where it is permitted to work in rich countries and to give a greater margin for the policies geared to growth by means of the relaxation of the rules of the WTO and the conditions of the EU should have a greater impact on development in the long term.
It is not clear that to extend access to the markets and to increase the aid they constitute the most productive use of valuable political capital in the north.
The development should focus not on trade and aid, but to improve the atmosphere of policy in the poor countries.
And now that is dependent?
If the Argentine economist Raul prebisch live at the moment, without a doubt, it could be asked whether the world is the other way around.
The theory of the 'independence', which had a great deal of influence, argued that if the poor countries rely too heavily on the main exports would never reach the industrial depth necessary to maintain an accelerated growth.
They would be bogged down, however, in a cycle of falling prices of raw materials at a global level and a participation less and less time of income.
The response of the favourite policy of prebisch, protectionism, was disastrous for the many Latin American and African countries that were the case.
But the fact is that, for many years, prebisch rightly seemed to be provided for the long term trends in the prices of primary products.
The relentless progress in agriculture and the extraction of resources under pressure to lower the price of raw materials, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s.
With a few exceptions, the countries that are concentrated in the export of these products were very poor actions, while many Asian countries with few resources to be brought forward.
However, today, as the Asian giants, India and China, are united in the global economy, the price of crude oil, gold, wheat and almost all the other raw materials are growing of explosive manner.
Although there will always be cycles --, for example, the price of oil will probably be before they go back to begin to rise -- the trend of long term of many primary products will be clear to the rise for some time.
What many trade negotiators and other responsible for the design of policies are not yet to have recognised, even though prebisch would have realised, is immediately that these tragic events have major implications for the overall balance of power.
In fact, perhaps no other aspect of economic globalisation will have to raise major challenges to the world leaders in the coming decades.
There are many questions.
It is prepared for the rich countries today, in an era of codependency in which they need so much the raw materials and the developing countries need the industrial imports and technology?
It is prepared for the inevitable flow of power and influence to the producers of raw materials, as these are done rich much more?
How will it address the two superpowers in the world, China and the United States, to the fact that there are exporting important primary products regions in Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia, which are full of nation States poorly trained?
Some autoconsagrados prophets of doom describe the problem as one of finite natural resources in which the world an alarming rate is still been left without raw materials criticism.
Today, many support the theory of the "something of hubbert 'on the production of oil, namely that we have reached the limits of the production capacity, the fields are being drained and everything will get worse from now on.
However, as indicated by the leading historian of oil, dan yergin, the prophets of the misery has already stated at least four times that the world is running out of oil.
Each time, the threat evaporated to be radical changes in technology.
At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil involved to dredge with mullahs.
At the time, no one is surprised at the wells 3000 metres under the seabed.
There have been similar improvements in all sectors of the metal mining and agriculture.
No, the world is not on the verge of remaining without raw materials.
What happens, however, is that the integration of 2.5 billion people - nothing else China and India) to the global economy are bringing about a change in the demand that it will exert much more pressure to the rise in the price of raw materials that any technological progress can offset.
In this way, at least during the next 50 to 75, and perhaps even humans at some time begin Mars mining operations in the coming years, the prices of many natural resources will be lifted.
will destabilise the global policy of readjustment of the global economic power, which is evident from this?
The first world war, of course, broke out in part by the German concern that the other colonial powers had a very high proportion of the world's supply of oil and raw materials.
Also, in Japan, the Second World War I was afraid for the stability of its foreign oil supply and other natural resources.
surgirán similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources - and where the shortage of water is even probema) and the West?
Fortunately, this does not seem likely, at the moment, especially given the balanced and pragmatic approach to the Chinese leaders as far as the problems of resources.
The Chinese are looking to regions such as Africa in the hope of finding stable trading partners.
They do not share the political proselytism of the Americans, who not only do they want to deal with the exporters of raw materials, but also to make them.
On the other hand, there are also the American leaders who speak to ensure that the United States is self-sufficient in energy supply.
But that is in essence a joke: complacent themselves, perhaps, but self-sufficient, never.
It is understandable that a large part of the Arab world to take account of the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the real strategy of the United States to ensure a stable supply of energy.
If they are in the right thing, we can only hope that the United States has a plan B.
In the meantime, the prices of raw materials will continue to go and at the moment the oil exporters are older people in charge of the enormous trade deficit of the United States.
Perhaps the American strategy today is to deal with having to the exporting countries of raw materials and that these should be dependent on the United States is satisfied.
That is something that prebisch would never have been anticipated.
The option of hard line of Iran
It is likely that the choice of the mayor of hard line in Tehran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next President of Iran is deteriorating relations with the West and the international isolation of the country.
However, in domestic terms, it is likely that the Islamic regime we are doing better than if there had been a more balanced result.
It is clear that Ahmadinejad has a basis of real support.
But that has been presented as a populist, who spoke to help the poor, it has condemned the operation of the government and who has been almost as opposition candidate is irrelevant: it was the one chosen by the regime, and in the end it received official aid even against other candidates of hard line.
The regime has played its cards of brilliant way.
It turned hashemi Rafsanjani, slightly more pragmatic and that I did not agree with some of the current policies, in the shape of the "system 'and to your own man in the rebel.
Thus, the government used the feelings against the system to revitalise its control.
The fact that last, Muhammad President Khatami, support the reform movement simply -- while timidly, and in the end did not achieve anything -- highlights the very absolute way in which the governments centred on the political situation.
Ahmadinejad is a representative of the youngest activists of the revolution in the Shah of a quarter of a century ago.
It was directly involved in the seizure of the American hostages in Iran, but to what extent is somewhat questionable.
The most worrying of all this is that it is close to the two main groups, which represent the most extremist elements of Iran: the body of the Islamic revolutionary guard and the basij organisation.
The first is a parallel army in favour of the regime are second is an organization which intimidates the opponents and those who are looking for a more open society.
However, the concerns of an even more radical leadership has taken the reins in Iran mitigate by two factors.
First, it is likely that Ahmadinejad is concentrated in internal affairs, to try -- with it is not made clear what success degree -- to improve the standard of living of the Iranian poorer.
Secondly, the same group which has had the control of the revolution will continue to take care of the ideological and foreign policy.
The President has less powers than it appears, overshadowed in particular by the Ayatollah Ali Khamenei Supreme guía.
However, the choice of Ahmadinejad absolutely clarifies the challenge that Iran is to western policy and the stability of the Middle East.
In the first place, � se a refers to is the most extremist elements of Iran and the terrorist customers of the country -- Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in peque � os Palestine and several groups which operate in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other Arab countries -- that they have a green light to mount attacks.
It is likely that they assume that Iran will support any thing to do.
outwards Iran has often been relatively cautious, but at a disguised level it has been the most important sponsor of terrorism at world level.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials can have acted on their own account in order to coordinate and specific operations. now they will feel that they have more freedom to do so.
In addition, Ahmadinejad supports the programme in Iran openly to obtain nuclear weapons.
Most of the Iranian politicians -- at least those to which the government allows them to operate openly -- they support the programme, but opt for a more modest and cautious approach.
Rafsanjani, for example, have preferred to build better economic relations with the West to progress in the nuclear front.
If Ahmadinejad is President of a nuclear Iran it is more likely that it uses the weapons of venture.
That does not mean that it would detonate them rather but that would use them for the purposes of diplomatic blackmail, given the threats to crisis level.
As Iraqi leaders proclaim newspaper its desire to remove Israel map and to fight against EU (Ahmadinejad pisoteó a photograph of the American flag when it came to the vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.
Finally, it is likely that Ahmadinejad more determined subvert the stability of Iraq and its victory will encourage the officials and Iranian radical extremists who are in that country.
Iran is already sending many agents to Iraq and supporting customers who want to turn it into a clone.
The Iraqis, including the Shiite Muslims -- who practise the same version of Islam to the Iranians -- they reject that interference in general.
It is likely that more militant position of Iran increases the friction with Iraq and generates more anti-American violence in this place.
In short, the outcome of the election of Iran is dangerous, but what is a destabilising it will depend on the actions of Ahmadinejad and the degree of power which Khamenei gives him.
In addition, in order to deal with an Iran so openly extremist -- radical even for the masters of hard line of the regime -- will be a challenge not only for the EU, but also for Europe.
will � intentarán European countries to pretend that the bellicose rhetoric and the provocation of Ahmadinejad do not matter and that a diplomatic solution to the nuclear ambitions of Iran can be found?
With Rafsanjani, it would have been easy to maintain an agreement or a farce of cooperation is true.
But Ahmadinejad with a high level will be needed to restore peace to the less diplomatic process even can continue.
Some Iranian reformists and exiles are pleased with the choice of Ahmadinejad because they claim that your government will be able to see the real face of the regime and will remove the Western hopes to reach an agreement.
However, it can also represent the success of the regime in cochoosing dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.
Whatever the outcome, for the West, the triumph of Ahmadinejad means that everything that has to do with Iran will have to be claentar still further.
In order to clear the poor to give the rich
President Bush is certain to ruin the budget of the US for the next few years.
When I took office, it was possible to provide for a future of excessive budgetary virtually uninterrupted.
Today, by means of a combination of tax reductions are driven by the Republicans, an economic slowdown, deflates of the bubble of the shareholding market and a massive increase in the cost of defence, the tax horizon is dominated by enormous deficits.
worse to come, because the Bush administration and the Congress dominated by the republicans are preparing a deepening of the tax chaos.
The damage that will probably do will weaken the United States of America and will add instability in the world economy.
Traditionally, the American Republican Party preferred balanced budgets.
This changed with the Reagan administration, when the Conservative Republicans favoured tax reductions, even at the cost of great emergence of budget deficits.
President Reagan, at the same time, said to the American people that it could enjoy tax reductions, a military increase and the continuation of his favourite spending programmes, everything to him.
It is not surprising that the result was a vast number of budget deficits which took years to repair.
Both President George Bush senior as Bill Clinton had to raise taxes to settle the chaos of the Reagan era.
These tax was probably contributed to the defeat of President Bush senior, at the hands of Bill Clinton in 1992.
And yet Clinton decided, bravely to complete the process of introducing the tax balance, partly in order to protect the financing of long term of the programme of withdrawal of social security.
When Mr Clinton left the position in the year 2000, the budgetary situation was the best in decades.
Then President George Bush jr came to once again play the role that Reagan played: high tax reductions, a great increase in military expenditure, and continuing or even expansion of the people's spending programmes.
The result was predictable.
In January 2001, it proposed that the accumulated budget outcome for years 2002-2011 would have a surplus of $5,6 trillion dollars.
In the middle of the year 2002, these excesses planned had gone.
In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, it would be possible to be hoped that the Bush administration and the Congress dominated by the republicans were cautious when it comes to proposing new tax cuts.
But no, that greater priority is to put to use new tax reductions that will benefit mainly to the rich.
At the same time, the government is proposing large increases in the military expenditure.
With the presidential election in November 2004 on the horizon, can we be sure that non-military will be no substantial cuts in spending programmes.
It is that it appears that their budget deficits, mass here to stay.
If the internal costs simply remains constant as a fraction of the national accession, the combined budget outcome for the next ten years will be a combined deficit of $1.5 billion.
But it may be that this figure is optimistic, because it is probably not include properly the costs of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax reductions, or the risk of higher interest rates in the next few years.
why Republicans this chaos is of concern to them so little all?
Some Republicans it matters to them and that the duties of the rich to be reduced as almost anything else.
Others believe that in this way the deficits will force to make substantial cuts in the internal costs of government, reducing the size of the State, which is its would wish.
The problem with this last point of view is that the majority of those who pay their taxes as the internal programmes and they will not be very easy to support the implementation of substantial cuts in spending.
A more worrying issue is to ensure that the Americans vote for such policies, when they should know that they will only lead to problems.
The answer is that many people do not see the forthcoming budgetary problems.
a better response is that most of the Americans did not vote in fact by these policies.
participation in the elections in 2002 was only a 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of eligible voters.
Of course, the prospects are not to be so black.
The war in Iraq can be avoided.
The proposed tax reductions can be rejected or be left.
But I predict inside large budget deficits in the coming years and a growing feeling of disquiet and outside the United States on the macroeconomic situation.
foreign investors can decide to stop funding the budget of the USA and shortcomings of current account in positive terms.
The dollar can be weakened and to intensify the concerns about inflation.
All this can do that those who design policies in the United States they have less confidence and are less flexible in his answers to the "economic shocks'.
It is likely that the poor, both inside and outside the USA, suffer the worst part, when President Bush and the Congress you say to the American people and the world that, due to the large budget deficits, is no money to deal with the problems of poverty, health and education.
Unless the ordinary Americans become aware of these tax risks, the rich could be with a gift of billions of dollars, as long as the country and the world suffer the painful consequences for many years to come.
The lessons of the tax carelessness in the United States
George W. Bush has contributed most to the ruin of the economic policy of the USA that no other President of American history, even exceeding its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
In just three years in power, it has destroyed a fragile political consensus for the construction of a decade was necessary and that it could take another decade to rebuild.
In so doing, Bush has put at risk the social stability and the economic strength of long term of the United States.
As the budgetary challenges of long term, that the USA is running so bad way is not exclusive, tax mistakes the United States provide important lessons for other countries.
The main problem with fiscal policy is that the politicians can be made public by reducing taxes and be temporarily increased public expenditure, causing huge national debt and leaving its payment for the future.
This issue could last a few years ago, but sooner rather than later défitits budget and the increasing national debt will force to provide painful one step back in this policy.
However, a cynical political can manage his re-election and perhaps to be withdrawn when a crisis breaks out.
One might imagine that, after hundreds of similar episodes of fiscal irresponsibility throughout the world in the last few decades, the voters would be allergic assets, such as these.
And yet, Bush is doing so again, buy popularity when distributing massive tax reductions, while at the same time increase the cost of war and even raises the cost of education and health care.
The result is a budget deficit, equivalent to more than 5% of the ggp.
What is worse is that the financial perspectives of long term of the United States were already problematic before Bush began its irresponsible policies.
The people of the United States is ageing, so that there will be a dramatic increase in the costs of public health and pension systems.
A careful calculation shows that it is likely that the future income under the policies favoured by President Bush is insufficient in dozens of trillion dollars to finance the costs of public pensions, health care and other fiscal expenditure is expected by the public.
At some point in the future, it will be necessary, therefore, to radically increase the collection of taxes, to drastically reduce public spending, or both, to correct the actions of Mr Bush.
Why, then, it supports the public these policies?
Because it understands or these consequences of long-term worry too little, even if we are finally end up harming to most of the Americans.
of cases, the richest taxpayers are in favour happy because they have been the main part of the tax cuts.
Exceptionally, richer 5% of the American taxpayer received almost half of tax reductions and clearly these rich taxpayers hope that other 95% (the middle class and the poor) support the majority of the cuts in expenditure and the increases in taxes that there are to be applied in the future.
In the meantime, Bush has convinced many poor people and businesses who should also be happy, without saying to them that they will have to pay their small tax reductions with much greater reductions in the future government services, if the policies of their administration persist in the long term.
If the Americans had political memory, should understand that they were already in this' tax hunting 'once in the last 20 years.
Ronald Reagan also came to power promising large reductions in taxation and a significant increase in the military expenditure.
The result was an enormous budget deficit in the middle of the 1980s.
The tax reductions are extremely made Reagan popular and they helped it to win the re-election in 1984.
It was necessary, more than a decade - starting with the second period of Reagan, and following in periods of George Bush senior and Bill Clinton) to be able to return to a budget surplus.
This, of course, meant to approve new tax increases, which cost the re-election of George Bush senior and led to the polarised political atmosphere in the 1990s.
It is almost certain that history will be repeated.
Some ideologists of the right of the Bush administration believe that tax present deficits will finally force to drastically reduce the social cost of the government.
They hope to dismantle programmes such as social security and medicare.
But the American public support these social programmes strongly.
So that the right strategy to reduce taxes first to force to make cuts in social programmes will then not work, and sooner or later it will be necessary to increase the tax.
others in the Bush administration argue that tax reductions are important to get the USA from the recession.
This argument is also wrong.
The economy of the US could have been recovered without tax reductions, and perhaps even more solid basis.
In any case, it is a great mistake on tax policies of long term in the trade cycle of short term.
There are two essential lessons for other countries.
The first is that the budget increasing deficits in the USA, sooner or later, will limit the international power of the United States.
The Americans only support the war in Iraq because they do not have to pay for it, with an increase in taxation.
When it is put to you before the dilemma abroad choose between adventures and increased taxes, it is much less likely that they support expensive military operations in the outside world.
In fact, the United States will be deeply divided when the public have to face up to the fiscal chaos left by Bush.
The second lesson is that the Member States would have to plan their budgets to take account of the increase in the financial costs of an ageing population.
The budgetary conditions of long term are rarely clear for the taxpayers or the European Parliament.
We should call on the governments to present / have budgetary assessments of long-term together with their annual budgetary proposals, with the aim of reducing the trend towards the political manipulation of short term in the budget.
The USA can serve as an early warning for other countries.
The White House should give the others, the same warning that the magic give viewers: 'they do not want this in their homes'.
The policy in the securities market
Many economic and financial analysts complain that the governments of the developing countries is often manipulated too much its shareholding markets and that these are political than economic more.
The unspoken assumption seems to be that, on the contrary, some Pristina force of the economic nature conducts the securities markets in the developed countries, and that, therefore, to predict its activities are as already predicting the growth of the trees.
This description of the shareholding markets of the developing countries is not wrong, but only partially, because it also applies to the markets of the developed countries.
In fact, the best analysts know that to predict the performance of the securities market of any country that, to a large extent, the means to predict how much they want the government which thrive investors in the political atmosphere of the moment.
Let us see the shareholding market in the United States, the largest in the world by far.
The general perception is that the government is the companies in peace, and that the dividends that turn out to invest in the shareholding market reflect the fundamental forces of robust a capitalist economy.
This is one of the reasons for which the EU is a magnet for investors throughout the world.
But the dividends that make so attractive to the shareholding markets of the EU will reflect a politically sensitive balance.
In particular, the tax rates which affect the actions have varied with time as they change the political pressure.
For example, during the Second World War, the political support to the great fortunes diminished and the government considerably increased the tax on the profits of capital, to the dividends and high incomes in general.
When the second world war was a strong recovery of the great depression of 30, President Roosevelt and the Congress added a tax to the excessive profits to ensure that the shareholders do not benefit too much.
In contrast, in 1980, when there was no war but the shareholding market are weak, the American voters, Ronald Reagan, chose to a man who many considered too much right to be President.
I asked - and obtain-you cut to a tax on the profits of the capital, profits and membership.
The political interference in the securities market is not limited to the tax on the profits of the capital, profits and membership.
taxes on property, consumption, imports and the sales - all of which pay for the authorities to them directly or indirect-can have an effect expanded on the corporate profits and, for that reason, on the shareholding market.
It is not by chance that, in all places where the securities markets flourish, governments are careful that taxes do not destroy the net corporate profits.
In fact, the policy in the shareholding markets does not end with the taxes.
On the contrary, almost all activities of the government has an impact on the corporate profits and, as well, on the securities market.
After the collapse of the shareholding market of 1929, the government of the EU suspended the anti-trust activities, to allow companies achieved a monopolistic power that high its value.
That policy delayed the recovery of huge unemployment, but even that was able to control the political forces ready in favour of supporting the securities market.
Similarly, one of the most important things that he was President Reagan was to destroy a large part of the power that was left to the American trade unions, which compete on his part of corporate profits.
The defeat which caused Reagan to strike out of the air traffic controllers in 1981 was parteaguas for the American trade union movement - and the securities market, that its dramatic upward trend in 1982 started.
The government of the EU has been particularly aggressive in supporting the securities market from the climax of the bubble of the price of the actions in the year 2000, above all by cutting interest rates on several occasions.
Of course, this policy was justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not to support the shareholding market.
But to see that one of the fundamental factors which are considered on the economy was the price to the loss of measures is a prime example of the importance of the shareholding market in the EU.
In fact, the response from the authorities should not be limited to the monetary incentives.
cuentas national of entry and product of the EU will show that the current rate of taxation to corporate profits (the percentage of the profits which is, in fact, been paid to the government via taxes) at the top of the 33,7% in the first quarter of the year 2000 - the development of the securities market and the economy in general-and fell to the 20,2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market is low.
A large part of this decline reflects the explicit support of fiscal measures adopted by the US Congress, as well as the perception of the authorities of that in the current political and economic climate, they can be more aggressive in tax evasion.
In addition, following the collapse of the securities market, the maximum tax on the profits of the actions has been reduced from 35% to 15%, which gave a substantial benefit to the long-term investors and reinforced the force consisting of reinvertir net dividends.
Once again, this tax cut was justified in terms of stimulating the economy, which, of course, can be said of almost any measures to support the securities market.
But what determines that the justification is to be credible, it is the balance of political power.
It could be said that, over the past 200 years, the same variables, including the hostility towards the high taxes and a weak Union movement, exploited in the EU - and that it is therefore to be hoped that they continue to operate in the future, producing high profits in the shareholding market and attract huge flows of foreign investment.
Those who think that the investments in the market of values of the EU will have a strong tendency of good growth for decades could be right.
But it is necessary to know what it is to be foreseen.
Essentially, not only predictions are being made on the economy, but also on the policies - and perhaps on the values cultural-that give way to the strategies and to the economic action.
The whole House
Houses are local investment, rooted in a determined as a tree, and, therefore, to grow or marchitando themselves in response to the local economic conditions.
Everyone is as a lightning through the screens of our television sets, but the market of our houses, was almost in its entirety for local fans, is still planted there, in our own back yard.
Then, however, all of this could change.
In a commercial month Chicago stock exchange (CME), in collaboration with my company, macromarkets, and also with fiserv and standard & poor ', I will refer to contracts of futures and options on the property prices in ten towns in the United States.
The contracts will remember about the levels of property prices P & S / case-shiller, that was generated from the academic work that my colleague Karl case and I started almost twenty years ago.
For many years, we have now been campaigning in favour of the future in the House, but, until now, no stock market would like to use this type of rates to create a market of the future.
The markets of the future on the prices of the House will allow investors throughout the world indirectly to invest in property in the United States, buying interests in them by means of these markets.
An investor in Paris, Rio and Kyoto will be able to invest in homes occupied by their owners in New York, angels and fertile valleys.
A fundamental principle of the financial theory -- 'diversification' or 'distribution of risk' - suggests that the interest in new contracts will be high.
The individuals and companies in New York, for example, are sobreexposed their local property risks, so that they would have to reduce the risk of selling future on the prices of the House in New York.
People in Tokyo, will take part of this risk buying future on the prices of the House in New York if the price is appropriate.
The New Yorkers will continue to live in their own homes, but now they will be distributed to the risk of investment at world level.
A genuine market of the future has not been made on unifamiliares houses since 1991, when the stock market of futures and options in London - which today is part of euronext.liffe) failed in its attempt to send a similar market in Great Britain.
That I never produced a great deal of volume of transactions.
The stock market organised a celebration, and nobody came.
The British markets of investments in the margins - spread-betting), and some retail markets online, never did not represent much either.
It will be different this time?
Without a doubt, to launch a new market is always an uncertain proposal: people want just to go to celebrate if many people go does if there is nobody, you do not want to go.
In the same way, in the markets without many investors, sufficient operations such as creating the again cannot be implemented necessary that they get them.
As is often the case to the great celebrations, a mystery can be how they take the substantial new markets, but we know that from time to time, it happens.
The initial indicators suggest a growing interest in the farms with future on the prices of the House, mainly because of the fact that there is so much talk about the real estate 'bubble' stresses the importance of diversifying the risk.
After the announcement of CME, one of its competitors, the Chicago board options exchange, I said that it was planned to create contracts of futures and options in the main American regions, which will be based on the average real estate price published by the national association of real estate agents.
However, beyond the strong public interest in investing in housing and taking shelter of the risks that this entails, another critical question must be resolved so that the markets of the future success: the prices must be shown and investors must understand what this means these prices.
I believe that there are very good opportunities that many of these markets of the future then mean substantial fall in prices in some American cities in the coming year.
They will be in which the operators call "backwardation '(invested market): the future price on the market today is lower than the current price for a house.
Perhaps this phenomenon, does not take place, the first day on which the future are marketed on the home, but there is a good chance that this is happening in a matter of months.
Perhaps we need "backwardation 'in some of these markets, if it is that they are going to do its job.
It is well known that there was a huge property explosion in many of these cities - and other parts of the world - in the last few years.
It is likely that the international investors, do not want to invest in these cities unless the expectations of a fall in prices are based on the markets of the future, as the people in Tokyo in his own grim experience know well.
But the phenomenon of 'backwardation' is strong enough to investors who believe that the American property market up to a fall will still be able to expect a good return of the future on the prices of the House, because they are already making a lower prices in the market of the future.
However, there are a number of adjustments will be required to ensure that the New Yorkers who want to protect their own property investment sell contracts of future which has a built-in fall in prices.
They will have to get used to the idea that the market already awaits the fall and that they can be protected by only that margin of possible loss of future prices which they go beyond this expectation.
Perhaps, to tell the truth, this type of adjustments in our way of thinking takes place when we really see the prices of the market of the future.
Until now, the future course of the prices of property was merely a question of different opinions.
When the markets throughout the world to create an international consensus on the future price of the House in cities, we will be better able to manage the risks facing these cities and, therefore, to stabilise their economies -- and our own lives.
What the news move the markets?
The stock markets, to a large extent of the world have been marked cumulative falls from the approximately 10 of may. in general, losses occurred in a period of two weeks on 23 May, but the prices are falling, on average, since then.
The problems in the stock markets in the world are translated into problems for the world economy?
Let us look at the greatest falls.
The amount of the main countries, the most important crash took place in India, where the prices of the actions to be brought 16.9% between 10 and 22 May.
The disaster on the other side of the world, it was almost as important and the peaks and dolines happened a day or two after those in India: in Argentina, the prices of the actions fell 16.1% are in Brazil, 14.7%, and in Mexico, 13.8%.
The European markets also suffered heavy losses.
In Sweden, the prices of the actions were 15.2% between 9 and 22 May does around in the same period, the prices fell 9.7% in Germany, 9.4% in France and Great Britain and 9.3% in Italy.
In the same way, in Asia, the prices of the actions fell 11.5% in Korea 9.3% in Hong Kong and 8% in Japan, at approximately the same period.
Many analysts try to link these facts with what has happened in the United States.
But the price of the actions were there as soon as 5.2% between 9 and on 24 May.
either China does not seem to be behind the overall fall, because the price of the actions, in fact, increased during this period.
The current explanation of the economists hinges on monetary policy.
Immediately after the great fear of deflation in 2003, the central banks throughout the world down their interest rates, which both unleashed a speculative outbreak in the securities market as in buildings.
But now, according to this vision, interest rates in lifting are beginning to feel that future is calling on the prices of assets.
This argument, in fact, really is an important share.
The Federal Reserve in the United States precisely increased charges on 10 May and the President Ben bernanke, indicated that there were others you raise charges in the future.
On 17 May known discouraging data on inflation in the United States, which suggests to file a future monetary adjustment.
The economists who like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is going on.
But, in doing so, they tend to exaggerate the role of the central banks.
In fact, the increase in the rate of the United States was just one in a series of you raise charges -- the sixteenth consecutive.
No other important central bank charges increased following the fall of the securities markets between May and June, when the 7-8 began several did it - the European Central Bank, India, South Korea, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey).
Another factor is the price of oil, which rose to 24% between 22 March and on 2 May, marker records all along.
Without a doubt, this was an important fact that perhaps it affected the securities markets throughout the world.
The increases in the price of oil has been responsible for almost all the economic downturns since the Second World War.
Even so, the increase in the price of oil do not correspond with the period in the middle of May, in which the rates of the securities markets fall more badly.
To say that the increase in the price of oil caused the falls in the securities markets presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.
But the securities markets is not very logical, and could have an answer delayed the crises in the price of oil.
As it happens, at any price, in the financial markets, it creates calls attention.
When oil prices rise quickly, people see the link news to the price of oil and talk more about oil prices, thus creating greater sensitivity on these reports.
The crisis in the Middle East is linked to the price of oil and dominated the news in the month of May.
The increases in the price of oil possibly momentum in the mind of the investors, the harmful signals and the strong language used by various political figures.
On 8 May, in response to the hostile statements of the Iranian President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, said that "the President of Iran should remember that on Iran, it is also possible to be deleted from the map '.
In the same way, almost the start of the collapse of the securities markets may, Ahmadinejad visited Indonesia, the most populous country in the world with a Muslim majority, on 13 May newspapers published that the students of two of the most distinguished universities of the country had ovacionado it feet.
This history could be interpreted as a test of Ahmadinejad bluster about the nuclear question was redituando you politically, which leads to the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East could result in even higher oil prices.
These reports may seem far more of the securities market that monetary policy.
But how do you react in the face of the public, together with the recent increase in the price of oil, may well be largely responsible for the change in the market psychology.
The attitudes in the face of the risk changing all the time, and episodes such as the declarations of ahmedinejad and Peres can dash this kind of change.
In this way, while these things happen on roads difficult to quantify, perhaps the analysts would have to pay the same attention to the words of Ahmadinejad to those of bernanke when they try to understand the direction that you take the markets of values in the world.
Perhaps the economists, they do not like to concentrate on the public and how it interacts with changes in prices, the news from all over the world and speculative dynamic.
After all, to do means that the economic facts are less predictable - and the economists, less omniscient) what you like to believe.
But this approach makes sense in which to intuition it concerns.
What, in fact, in the minds of the investors?
Ahmadinejad is a charismatic figure does bernanke, no.
Ahmadinejad is embarking on an adventure bernanke does not.
and, perhaps most important, Ahmadinejad is a destabilising influence does bernanke, no.
In fact, whatever their root cause, the fall in the middle of May in the prices of the actions across the world indicate a psychology of unstable market.
It is hard to believe that they were linked solely to views on a possible monetary policy and not more important and more serious issues, such as the energy and political tension, which underpin the performance of the world economy.
So to pay more for equality?
Marks & Spencer, a supermarket chain and clothing with 400 shops in Great Britain, recently announced that it is making all its branch of coffee and tea, with a total of 38 lines, to Fairtrade, a marketing symbol represents a 'ethical' production.
The chain already sells only tea and coffee Fairtrade in its 200 cafeterias resurrect coffee.
It is also encouraging the purchase of shirts and other products made with Fairtrade cotton.
The announcement took place during 'Fairtrade fortnight', a promotion of two weeks of Fairtrade products containing tours where farmers in developing countries have the British how Fairtrade attends their communities.
The movement towards a more ethical consumption also made significant progress in the United States, because consumers inclined, more and more, of organic food locally produced and eggs from hens that are not locked in cages.
In Great Britain, a survey found that half of the people who was to them the Fairtrade symbol accepted and understood that it relates to products which are better conditions for the farmers in the third world.
A comparable research in the United States, but from related data does not exist, and in discussions with my own students, it reveals that the figure would be much lower.
The traders who are seeking a Fairtrade certification should pay the producers a price which covers the costs of a sustainable production and offers a salary which allows them to live.
For example, the minimum price for coffee is of 1.26 dollars for 450 grammes, it does not matter how much the market price can have fallen.
If the market price is above that number, the price of Fairtrade will increase, so that it is costing more than five cents per 450 grammes.
Small farmers, on the other hand, it is required to do so to organise in cooperatives or other groups which allow the democratic participation.
The plantations and the factories can use the Fairtrade label if decent wages paid to them for their employees, whether they meet the standards of health, safety and the environment, if you will allow them to organize TUs or other forms of associations of workers, if they provide decent housing to workers who do not live in their own home, and if they do not use child labour or forced labour.
Not everyone is in agreement with Fairtrade.
edge Lindsey, the director of the Centre for studies of commercial policies of the promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign for the Fairtrade coffee is "a well-meaning impasse '.
with some justification, he maintains that the real cause of the fall in coffee prices was not the skim off the multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Brazil and Vietnam, combined with new technologies which make it possible to grow coffee with less labour and, therefore, with a lower costs.
According to the Lindsey, if we want to help the coffee growers, we should encourage them to leave the coffee and to produce more profitable cultures -- and here it indicates, accordingly, the barriers to trade and the benefits of the rich countries such as obstacles that must desmantelarse- or apply to products of greater value, as a special cafés, which have higher prices.
The curious thing about the argument of Lindsey, however, is that it could be said that the campaign of Fairtrade coffee is doing exactly what it recommends -- encourages the coffee growers to produce a special coffee with a high value more.
The economists pro-market do not object to the corporations flagrantly appeal to the snobbishness to promote their products.
If people want to pay 48 dollars for 450 grammes of coffee blue mountain of Jamaica, because that is what James Bond prefers, economists are not subject to the market is being distorted.
Why, then, to be critical where the consumer to choose to pay USD 12 by 450 grammes of coffee, know, was grown without toxic chemical substances, under trees that favour the survival of birds, by farmers who can afford to feed and to educate their children?
The economists could reply that, if it wants to help people to feed and to educate their children, they can pay USD 10 for 450 grammes of coffee, that is not Fairtrade but which has the same pleasure and to give the 2 dollars him to save a charity organisation, which provides for food and education, to the poor boys.
It is a possible strategy, but Fairtrade has its advantages.
The farmers know that they should provide a product which they as consumers, both for his taste and on the way in which it is grown.
If a product is sold, can be proud to have produced something which people are looking for throughout the world.
From the point of view of the farmers, it is better to have an advantage to sell a Fairtrade product to receive a charitable donation that they would receive from all ways, they worked or not, and never mind the quality of what they produce.
to pay for a Fairtrade label is not more "anti-market 'than to pay more for a Gucci label, more and better reflects ethical priorities.
Fairtrade is not a public subsidy.
Its success depends on the demand side of the market, not of the political lobby.
Fortunately, in Europe, this demand for market is growing rapidly.
It is to be hoped that it will come to similar levels everywhere in the developed world, and where people can choose what are its discretionary expenditure.
pigs, calves and the American democracy
In the midst of all those who spoke for the democrats had made the control of the Congress of the United States, an election result important almost go unnoticed.
Although it has highlighted the shortcomings of the American political system, it could restore the faith to me at the mercy of the ordinary Americans.
in Arizona, citizens can submit a draft law the people directly vote if they meet a sufficient number of companies.
This year, one of the issues which appeared in the ticket was a law to ban that it was tied or rode along a pregnant sow or keeping calves for meat, so that prevented the animals to be given back freely, to lie down and to extend its develop completely.
Those who know little about the modern young industrial can be applied so that it will be necessary for legislation.
Under the young methods that are universal 50 years ago and which still remain, at the moment, common in some countries, all animals have the space to be returned and to stretch their develop.
However, today, around 90% of young sows -- the mothers of pigs which grow up and kill to obtain meat, meat and jamón-pass their lives locked in approximately 60 cages most of this measure cms. by 2.2 metres.
They cannot be returned, lie down with its completely extended legs or more of a step forwards and backwards.
Other sows to them is linked with short ropes that they also prevent to get them back.
The calves it lies in a similar way to them throughout their lives in pens which do not allow us to get them back, to bed or to stretch their develop.
These methods are essentially resources to rescue work -- will facilitate the use of animals and allow the farms which have thousands or tens of thousands of animals at least employ a limited number of qualified workers.
They also prevent animal waste energy moving and fight.
Several years ago, after the protests of the organisations of the protection of animals, the European Union delegate to the Scientific Veterinary Committee, a report on these methods.
The Committee found that the animals suffer at not being able to move about freely and by not have absolutely nothing to do with every day.
Of course, the common sense would have come to the same conclusion.
As a result of the report, the EU set dates by which it would be forbidden to border that those animals.
In the case of calves, the date of 1 January 2007, almost it has arrived.
The individual pens for sows, which are already illegal in the United Kingdom and Sweden, will be banned in the EU as a whole and 2013.
They are also being phased in measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, to which it is crowded generally in cages of wire without space to extend its wings.
In the United States, any national measures of this kind is not envisaged.
Earlier, when my friends asked why the United States is so late with regard to Europe in the field of animal welfare, I, for my part, I do not have an answer.
If they lobbied me, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans are less about the animals than the European.
Then, in 2002, the defenders of the welfare of the animals involved in the electoral notes of Florida a proposal to ban the Augean for sows.
To come as a surprise to many, I met with the approval of 55% of the electorate.
Last month in Arizona, in spite of a well financed opposition of the agro-industrial sector, the ban on the small cages for sows and calves was adopted with the support of 62%.
Neither flowery or Arizona is particularly progressive States -- both by George W. Bush voted and not by John Kerry in 2004.
That is why the results show very strongly that if all the Americans were given the opportunity to vote on the containment of pregnant sows and calves in such small places, the majority would vote against it.
It seems to me that the Americans the welfare of the animals concerned both to you and to the European.
For that reason, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States in terms of the welfare of animals, we must pay attention to the political systems.
In Europe, the concerns of the voters on the welfare of the animals have been able to influence the members of the national parliaments, and the members of the European Parliament, which has resulted in national laws and guidelines of the EU to respond to these concerns.
In contrast, in the United States the same concerns have not had an observable effect on the Members of Congress.
There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals -- and very few state legislation.
That, I believe, is that the agro-industrial sector to give tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of the Congress who seek to reelect itself.
The movement for the welfare of the animals, despite the broad popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of political lobbying and donations to the campaigns.
In the American policy money has more than the opinion of the electorate.
The party discipline is weak and the representatives must fulfil themselves most of the funds which are necessary for their re-election, and that takes place every two years in the case of the members of the House of Representatives.
In Europe, where the party discipline is rigid and the parties, not the candidate countries, are the one who finance the campaigns, the money will play a minor role.
In the United States, a nation that is proud of its democratic traditions, not only is losing sows and calves.
What has happened in the new Afghan army?
The mass murder of the Minister of aviation in Afghanistan - perhaps call on Members of the interim administration in Afghanistan) shows that the Afghan society continues to be deeply fisurada.
The first reform of the Afghan army will only make those divisions wider.
The Minister of Defence of the interim administration of Hamid Karzai in Kabul has already mentioned the highest official languages of this new army.
The Minister, General Mohammed fahim, is tayik of the Panjshir district in the north of the country that three months ago took the command of the forces of the Northern Alliance which caught Kabul after the American bombers cleared the way for them.
On the whole, their appointments raise a direct challenge to the objective that has Mr Karzai to reunite the country.
Afghanistan is a multi-ethnic nation, being Pashtun the largest group, with two fifths of the total.
hazara and tayik everyone is almost a fifth of the population.
of treintaiocho officers high on the general grade by Mr fahim, treintaisiete are tayik and other Uzbek.
If some of the 15 to 17 million from Pashtun of the country is doing as a soldier, will be almost under a structure of command trained in its entirety for tayiks.
The language of Pashtun, however, is very different from tayik as the Spanish in the English and millions of Pashtun in age to serve in the military service are only one outburst of tayik, in the best case scenario.
The geographical scope of the new military leadership is as strong as its ethnic constitution.
treintaicinco of treintaiocho officers of the top jobs come from a small region in the north of Kabul, set up by the parwan province - in which the airport in Bagram is located) and by the Panjshir Valley, which for a long time, was the strong of the Northern Alliance.
position in another way, the potential leaders of 27 of the 29 provinces of Afghanistan, were excluídos of the new military elite of the country.
Perhaps a group with a basis of such little diversity could not give the impression that they form a secretive gang if they represent a wide cross section of the twelve or more political parties of the country.
But that is not the case.
Eighteen from treintaiocho top commanders from a party, the jamiat-e-islami, the leading Islamic faction from long ago by Mullah and exprofesor of burhanuddin Rabbani theology.
This was the party in government Kabul in the middle of the 1990s, leading to the bloodshed and chaos, which meant that most of the Afghan women who welcomed the Taliban.
Almost equaling the number of Members of the jamiat at the military level, they are the Communists.
Sixteen of treintaiocho have long been aligned with that party, whose stratagems at the end of the 1970s, led to the Soviet invasion of 1979-89, which cost two and a half million Afghan lives.
Today, most of the Afghan women who see the Communists, with the same sympathy that the Czechs or the Poles reserve for the Nazi party of Hitler.
Certain people in Afghanistan, as elsewhere, are linked to the Communist Party for various reasons and of ningua way was all those in favour of strict ideologies.
But in the case of the generals in general fahim six were used professional of the Communist Party, and continue to work for it after the invasion of the Red Army.
The six, in addition to the other three communists who served as servants of the Afghan army, played an active role in the course of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
Let us imagine how the French would have reacted if one quarter of the existing work corps in France in the post-war period has taken the side of the Wehrmacht when he was his country.
In Afghanistan, the news travel quickly in their mouths in their mouths.
The Afghan nationalists (including all the Afghans themselves have almost) will soon find the political background to the members of the inner circle of general fahim, if it is that they do not know them.
This sobrecogeedora evidence of unipartidismo and willingness in the training of the high command of the new army could even be excluded if the generals offered professionalism and commitment to the patriotic values of real national armed forces through their work.
Unfortunately, the only ten of treintaiocho military promoted by fahim have fungido as professional military officers.
eleventh it served as a model.
In contrast, 24 of the total (the background of rest four are not known) come of civil society, with any professions, or of the offices of the Communist Party, or, in this case, to make a career as Mullah.
What is the point of all of these statistics in terms of the everyday reality?
It means that when the American leaders of the international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as military and diplomats, know asistende Minister of Defence of Afghanistan, they will find with Abdul Rashid dostum, a remarkably brutal and corrupt military Commandant Communist and who is still in good condition in contact with old friends of the Red Army in Moscow.
It means that the head of the Afghan armed forces, as well as the head of the operations and the head of the military intelligence, are also Communist, men whose loyalty is uncertain and those who distrust, most of the Afghan women.
That is a team, which would have the possibility of unifying the Afghanistan fragmented by the war?
inspirará the presence of Kabul so dudable crew, confidence in the three quarters of the people in Afghanistan, which have been excluídos of high command of the army?
Or is this list, rather, is an approach to the governance of the kind 'everything for the winner' who is intended - in any future position) to trigger a bloody national setback in the hands of those whose legitimate interests, cynically have been persecuted?
The Americans, the Europeans and the people of the United Nations in charge of the definition of policies would have to weigh these cuestionamientos before allowing themselves to allow a ruthless taken power in charge of a small minority and unpopular.
a recognition of the irrational
I applaud the new Nobel Prize in economics: Daniel kahneman, of the University of princeton and Vernon Smith, of the university George mason of Virginia.
Like many other Nobel prize-winners, these rewards are a recognition, not only to the señero work carried out by kahneman and Smith, but also to the schools of thought which helped to lead.
kahneman, that is sicólogo, has shown how people behave systematically rational ways less than what the orthodox economists believe.
The research is not only that the people sometimes act differently from what the economic theories predict regulation, but to do it in a way to regulate and consistent, and in ways which can be included / understood and be interpreted by means of alternative scenarios that compete with those used by the orthodox economists.
For all the participants in the market - and, indeed, for the ordinary observers) this does not seem to be a great innovation.
the agents of Wall Street who put on sale actions which knew that they were not going to be worth anything exploited irrationality that kahneman and Smith said.
A large part of the disease, which led to the bubble economy based on the operation of the sicología of investors.
In fact, this irrationality is nothing new either for the profession of economists.
long ago John Maynard Keynes called the securities market as something that is based not on rational people who fight to reveal the fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest in which it earns who is the verdict of the judges.
The Nobel Prize winner of this year is a recognition of the criticism of a simplistic market economy, as it made the prize last year - that I was one of the three winners).
The winners of the last year put the emphasis on the various participants in the market have different (and imperfect) reports, and in which these imbalances in the reports have a profound impact on how to work the economy.
In particular, the winners of the last year involved that the markets are not efficient in general, and that the government had an important role to play.
the invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that the markets are taking to the efficiency as if handled an invisible hand them) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
This is not new, for those working day to day in the market - and they do their fortunes taking advantage of and saving the imbalances in the information).
For more than twenty years economists have been stunned by the so-called models of 'expectations rational', which meant that all participants have the same - if not perfect) reports and that operate well in a rational way, that the markets are very efficient, that unemployment there is never (except when it is caused by the greed of the trade unions and the minimum wages of governments - and, in that it is never a rationing of credit.
The fact that these models have prevailed, especially in the American universities, in spite of the evidence to the contrary, is a testament to the triumph of the ideology of science.
Unfortunately, the university students of these programmes are the people who are now the policies of many countries design, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas which have come to call a market fundamentalism.
That is not my malentienda: the rational models of expectations made an important contribution to the economy does the rigour that its supporters imposed on the economic thinking helped to bring to light the weaknesses of many underlying assumptions.
Good Science recognises its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations have not been said often enough.
Vernon Smith is a leader in the development of the experimental economy, the idea that it is possible to test a number of economic proposals in a laboratory atmosphere.
One of the reasons that the economy is a very difficult subject, and to ensure that there are so many inequalities between economists, is the fact that they cannot be controlled experiments.
The environment is natural experiments, but in almost all the circumstances so many things change so quickly that it is often difficult to fathom what caused what.
In principle, in a laboratory we can be controlled experiments and, therefore, make inferences more reliable.
The critics of the experimental economy it is to them that the questions put to the test situations created ways of thought outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not so clear and that the inferences not so as defined in natural sciences.
However, the economic experiments provide prospects for a number of important issues, such as the best form of auctions.
What is most important, the irrationality of the participants in the market, which was the focus of the work of kahneman, it has been proved again and again in a laboratory contexts.
Between the funny results more than they have emerged from the experimental economy are linked to the unselfishness and egoism.
It seems that - at least in experimental situations) the affairs of the experiments are not as selfish as economists in their hypotheses have raised it, except in the case of a group: the same economists.
This is why the economy and disciplines is appealing to people who are more selfish by nature, or to the economy to help shape individuals, making them more selfish?
Surely, the answer is almost a bit of both.
Probably, the future experimental research will help to resolve the question of the relative importance of these two scenarios.
The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as they are and not as we would like them to be.
Only if we include / better understand the real human behaviour we can hope to design policies that make our economies work better.
The bad faith in the energy policy of Bush
In one of the surrealistic session of the World Economic Forum in Davos, this year, the experts of the oil industry also explained how the melting of the polar ice -- that is happening more quickly than anyone had envisaged is not only a problem, but an opportunity: it can to facilitate access to vast quantities of oil.
Similarly, these experts, given that the fact that the United States has not signed the Convention of the Sea, the international treaty which determines who has maritime access to overseas oil and other mineral rights, present / displays a risk of international conflict.
But they also indicate the side advantage: the oil industry, in the continued search for more reservations, does not need to ask the House to give the right to despoil Alaska.
President George W. Bush has a strange position of not being the largest message.
For years, it has become increasingly clear that their energy policy is somewhat lacking.
Following the dictates of the oil industry, members of his own party even referred to a previous energy law such as "it did not leave any lobbista unhappy '.
At the same time, extols the virtues of the free market, Bush has done no more than to give enormous perks to the energy industry, even in times of that country has the highest deficits.
There is a failure of the market in terms of energy, but the intervention of the government would have to go in the direction precisely against that the Bush administration is proposing.
The fact that the Americans do not pay the price of the resulting contamination of their throw-away use of energy - especially the enormous amounts of gases which cause to the greenhouse effect, means that this is subestimated, which has an excessive consumption as well.
The government must encourage conservation, and take part in the system of prices - by means of taxation of energy is an efficient way to do it.
However, instead of encouraging the conservation, Bush has promoted a policy "to strip the United States first ', left to us more dependent on external oil in the future.
It does not relate to the high demand is increasing the price of oil, creating a torrent of money for many of the parties involved in the Middle East, which are not just us friends.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have awakened finally to the reality of the growing dependence on the USA does with the huge increase in oil prices, it will be difficult for you not to notice the consequences.
However, almost certainly the hesitant steps of their administration will make things worse in the immediate future.
Bush still refuses to do anything with regard to the conservation, and has supported with very little money his constant refrain about where the technology is what it has to us to save.
What, then, can we think of the recent statement by a commitment to ensure that the United States is a 75% less dependent on the oil in the Middle East in 25 years?
For the investors, the message is clear: not to invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the cheapest world oil source.
However, without new investment for the development of reserves in the Middle East, the debocado growth in energy consumption in the United States, China and the rest of the world is that the pace of demand will overcome the supply.
If that were not enough, the threat of Bush to implement sanctions against Iran poses the risk of interruption in the supply of one of the largest producers of the world to happen.
At times that the production of oil in the world closer to its full potential and the prices are already more than twice the level prior to the war in Iraq, the future it suggests prices and even greater piece of the oil industry, the only clear winner of the policy of Bush in the Middle East.
It is clear that Bush should not be accused of at least and, finally, to have recognised that there is a problem.
But, as always, a more detailed look at what it proposes is another sleight of hand on the part of the administration.
In addition to refuse to recognise the importance of the global warming, to stimulate the conservation or to devote sufficient funds to research to make a real difference, the lofty promise of Bush to achieve a reduction in the level of dependency on oil in the Middle East means less than what it is.
Because only 20% of the oil used in the USA come from the Middle East, this goal can be achieved with a small change of acquiring this resource from other sources.
However, one might think, without a doubt that the Bush administration is aware that oil is treated in a global market.
Even if the United States were 100% independent of the oil in the Middle East, a reduction in the supply from this region would have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.
As it happens, very often with the Bush administration, the clarification of the official policy is not very encouraging.
Bush is playing to make when calling on the sense of political anti-iranian anti-Arab and in the United States?
Or is just another example of incompetence and lawlessness?
So we have seen in the last five years, the correct response probably contains more than a bad faith and pure incompetence.
The road map of China
China is on the point of adopting its 11th five-year plan, to set the scene for the continuation of probably the most significant economic transformation of history, as it almost improves the material situation of a quarter of the world's population.
In the eyes of the world have never seen a sustained growth which are never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
Part of the ongoing success of China has been its almost unique combination of pragmatism and vision.
As long as a large part of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington consensus has been geared to a quixotic crusade by the largest ggp, once again, China has made clear that it wants to sustentables and more equitable increases in the actual standards of living.
China is aware that we have entered a phase of economic development which is leading to huge -- and intolerable demands on the environment.
Unless there is a change of course, living standards will end up being affected.
Therefore, the new plan of five years lays great emphasis on the environment.
Several of the less developed areas of China has been increasing at a rate which would be extraordinary if it were not for the fact that some parts of the country are to grow even more quickly.
Although this was reduced poverty has increased inequality, with ever greater disparities between rural and urban areas, and between coastal areas and the interior.
The report on the development of the World Bank, this year, explains why the inequality - and not only poverty must be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China attacks against the problem.
For several years, the government has spoken of a more harmonious society, and the plan describes ambitious programmes, to achieve this.
In addition, China recognises that what separates less developed countries in the developed countries is not only a gap in income, but also a breach of the knowledge.
So it has drawn up a bold plan, not only to reduce it, but in addition to create a basis for independent innovation.
China's role in the world and the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects this.
Their future growth will have to be based more on internal demand that in exports, which will require an increase in consumption.
In fact, China has a common problem little: an excessive degree of savings.
People save, partly because of the weakness of the programmes for the social security of the government are the strengthening of the social security (pensions) and public health while at the same time will reduce the social inequalities, will increase the sense of well-being of the citizens and it will promote the present consumption.
If they are successful - and so far, China has exceeded even their own expectations), these adjustments can mean enormous pressure on a global economic system that is already unbalanced because of the enormous tax and trade imbalances of the USA.
If China it saves less -- and if, as has been announced their authorities, it seeks to carry out a more diversified policy of investment of its reservations, who will pay more than $2 daily billion of trade deficit of the United States?
It is a matter for another occasion, but it may be that that day is not very much.
With a clear vision of the future, the challenge will be to implement it.
China is a large country, and I could not have achieved the success that it has been without a widespread decentralisation.
But the decentralizations to create their own problems.
For example, the greenhouse gases are global problems.
As long as the United States says that it is not possible to be allowed to do anything about it, the High Authority of China have acted in a more responsible manner.
In the month after the adoption of the action plan, new environmental taxes on the part of the cars, the forest petrol and products. Chinese mechanisms used based on the market to tackle the problems average environmental and global his.
However, the pressure on the authorities of the local governments to create economic growth and jobs will be enormous.
They will see very tempted argue that if the United States cannot produce in a manner which safeguards the planet, and how could it be?
In order to translate their vision to actions, the Chinese Government will need sound policies, such as the environmental taxes average just apply.
As we move towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems that have affected repeatedly developed countries: I interest individuals to disguise their selfish arguments behind a veil of weak market ideology.
Some would argue in favour of the economy of the chorreo: we do not worry about the poor, for at all will end up benefiting from the growth.
and some will be against the policies on competition and the existence of sound legislation on the use of the facilities: we fail to act, the law of the darwiniana survival.
arguments will be earmarked for growth to be opposed to the existence of sound environmental social policies and means: for example, I will say that 'if the tax raise petrol, which will mean the stifling of our burgeoning automotive industry'.
These so-called political pro-growth not only would not believe this, but which may threaten the same vision of the future of China.
There is only one way to prevent this, it is an open debate on economic policy, with the aim of putting into the open cheating and provide room for creative solutions to the many challenges arise that China is facing today.
George W. Bush has shown the dangers of an excessive secrecy and to limit the decision making a closed circle of football fans.
The majority of people outside China does not appreciate how their leaders, in contrast, have become involved in lengthy deliberations and extensive consultation - even with foreigners) in their efforts to solve the enormous problems that face.
The market economies are not regulated by themselves.
They cannot simply be left to automatic pilot, particularly if one wants to make sure that all enjoy the benefits.
However, it is not easy to administer a market economy.
As a juggler, it is necessary to respond constantly to balance the economic changes.
The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that answer.
The world notes with astonishment and hope that the lives of 1.3 billion people are becoming.
The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy
It is appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, that the world is debating the nature of democracy to two hundred years of the birth of Alexis de Tocqueville.
Tocqueville is rightly renowned to reject reactionary nostalgia and to take into account the victory of democracy in our destiny, whereas I warned of the dangers that democracy for freedom involves.
We must still share your concerns?
Tocqueville designed to democracy, not just as a political regime, but above all, as an intellectual regime which gives way to the customs of society in general, and, in this way, it gave a psychological and sociological dimension.
Tocqueville argued that the democratic regimes determine our thoughts, wishes and passion.
As well as there was a Renaissance man and, in the 20th century, sovieticus homo, "the democratic man 'is a variety of the human being.
For Tocqueville, systemic effects of democracy could lead to the citizens to deprive themselves of their reasoned opinion.
They could only pretend that they judge the events and the single values in case does, in fact, they merely copied the crude and simplified opinions of the masses.
In fact, what Tocqueville called the domination of the 'social' power on the opinion is probably stronger in the democratic regimes - point of view which predicts that the growth of demagoguery at the modern age and the manipulation of the media.
Tocqueville thought that this trend must not effective restrictions in the long term.
Neither the local democracy, nor the small companies, or the government checks and balances, or civil rights can prevent the decline in the critical believe that democracy seems to cause.
The schools little have the power to be more than enclaves in the middle of the corrosive power of the social impact on the operation of the mind.
In the same way, although Tocqueville thought to seek the means as were made in the age or have a religion on some occasions it could increase the soul, also in conflict with the democratic ideal if it were regulatory officially in public life.
In this respect, the intellectual heirs of Tocqueville include the neomarxist theorists of school in Frankfurt, as well as to Hannah arendt. all of them was, above all, to the disintegration of reason in modern societies.
In fact, the French philosopher Marcel Gauchet intituló of a recent book democracy in itself.
The democratic way of life, as these writers argue, tends to destroy the original thinking and to remove "high culture ', which will result in a mediocrity that makes the most vulnerable citizens before the enemies of democracy.
But, while history is peppered with regimes murderers advocated by intimidated and deceived masses, the great risk for the democratic countries is that their citizens to fall into the apathy and vision of short term for the sake of the immediate satisfaction.
The past - despite the ritual, which seek to commemorate historic moments herd due to the new dependence on and the recent.
Indeed, the supposedly well mannered leaders is subject to the charm.
The essential problem of the democratic spirit is its lack of historical conscience.
The shortcomings of democracy, actually mean, as Tocqueville argued that the outgoing pessimism is the only realistic way, but intolerable that we have?
I do not think so.
There are ways to combat the growing 'democratic' stupidity today could be called.
The first defence is to press for an education system that really forms minds criticism, that is to say, by means of the areas neglected to a large extent - at the moment) of literature, history and the philosophy.
If we want to shape the informed citizenship and critical that democracy needs, our schools must stop fold themselves to the most recent passengers fashion and start to improve analytical capabilities of students.
The greatest obstacle to that education is the mass media, with their tendency to cultivate the superficiality and enjoyment.
At the moment there are a lot of people who spend most time in their lives they see the TV rooms in the class.
The passivity which promotes means is the exact opposite of the active participation of the democratic citizens need.
But it is difficult to imagine that the mass media (with the exception of quality newspapers), by its own will, by means of an education which strengthens the capacity of criticism of the citizens.
This concern on mass means of communication is not purely elitist contempt for the people's culture.
The question is not only of popular - after all, Mozart was popular in the times and the theatre work of Shakespeare attracted both the poor and the rich, but of the rejection of the mass culture to challenge and cause.
The result of that failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
In fact, for a long time, it has been up in a globalised culture of the means which is unable to provide the capacity of the critical view or create high feelings.
It is a culture which, due to their negligence, threatens democratic freedom because it is not possible to create a sense of duty - to society, to the history of the Community.
It is too late to do something about a culture which suggest both the spirit?
Tocqueville underestimated the elite of her time by its complacency towards the strength of uprooting of mass democracy.
Perhaps will serve the short-sightedness of our leaders like agent of the disturbing prophecy?
a Europe for all
Today, states that long ago, belong to the European Union seem to doubt the future it, but in the Ukraine, we see with hope and admiration.
to bind us to the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, because the Ukraine has discovered that to be a nation that is not an end, but it is a start.
In fact, the European Union is indivisible: when a nation sidelined has been convicted, none of them is free.
We Europeans are indispensable to a close network, interlaces in a single fabric that represents our destination.
Every aspect of our common culture, if not the last century of shared suffering, confirms this.
Everything concerning a European directly and indirectly affects us all.
We can never more allow us to live with a narrow concept of two Europe, privileged and dispossessed, known and foreign.
No-one who lives in the European continent can - and indeed it should not be considered outside the Union.
On the major European Pax and pan-European prosperity today depend.
Of course, some people murmur that Ukraine is not Europe.
They come to Kiev and talk to people, young and old, with the workers of the factories, farmers' wives, lawyers, doctors and teachers who remained in the street, support for weeks the cold and snow last winter to defend their rights.
It is not united by a link with those who sat next to the General de Gaulle in French resistance?
It is not with those who died fighting for the Spanish Republic in the thirties, with those who liberated Budapest in 1956 and with those who put an end to the fascism in Spain and Portugal in the 1970s?
It is not driven by the same spirit which gave forces to the movement of Solidarity in Poland and the peaceful masses that carried out the Velvet Revolution in Prague in 1989?
That is the true European spirit, and no doubt can collapse.
To those who say that the Ukraine is too late as a Member of the EU, I also say to them: that they come to my country and they see the mothers and their children at night are left in their places of work teaching to use computers.
They come to see the lessons of languages in every town and city where young people are preparing for Europe, learning French, German and English.
That means the European vocation of the Ukraine must include / understand that Europe is not a matter of machineries and superfreeways does it is the inextinguishable desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
I believe that our future is as promising as brilliant, it is Europe's past, and that our fate is not to be a forgotten country a border region in problems, but a manufacturer and the creator of peace and the unity of Europe.
Self-determination is no longer means isolation, as to achieve national independence, today, it is only to return to the world stage with new status.
The new nations can create with their former occupiers the same sort of fruitful relationship that France has developed in Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
This is the kind of relationship that my government is seeking with Russia, and to ensure that it is the way in which we can extend the area of peace in Europe.
Of course, it is premature to make another thing to point out the great interest which we see the prospect of becoming members of the EU.
We know that our part in this very building, will not be achieved overnight.
We know that the major projects of the European Union are not in documents or declarations, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and to guarantee the safety of all Europeans.
to build the Ukraine worthy of being a member of the EU will not be easy and cheap quickly.
However, as the European Union, it is a company that will be achieved.
We know that the challenge is large, but the prize is worth the effort, and Europe must know that this is our goal.
Part of the task of renewing the Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare in which, fascism and communism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, are fighting for the total energy.
Only a few months ago, in the cities of Ukraine, our children and their parents who are faced with armed troops, threatening dogs, or even the death.
Just a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze when dealing with to inform the public about the corruption of the former regime was tortured and beheaded by his henchmen.
However, our orange revolution last winter showed that the people of Ukraine prevailed.
Why, in spite of the doubts and difficulties of today, I maintain an unshakeable faith in Europe.
I would not like to accept the frustration as a final answer to the ambiguities and the horrors of the history of the Ukraine.
I would not like to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically linked to the opaque midnight on the legacy of the Communist regime which will never be able to see the dawn of peace and true of European unity.
When the citizens of the EU to weigh up the place of Ukraine in Europe, they must be both more and more about which there is at first.
They have to look beyond the devastated into deserts that Communism left, over and above the poverty and social divisions, by means of which our former leaders today put aside, sought to extend their anarchy.
Instead of this, they would have to look closely at the side of our President, Viktor Yushchenko, distorted by the poison during the election campaign in the last year, and to recall the words of the great French Mr Malraux, for whom 'the most beautiful faces are those who have been injured'.
The civil war.
Today is the division between chiíes and suníes in the Middle East deeper than the antagonism between Israel and the Arabs?
That might be thought, given the response of certain Arab governments to the decision of hizbulah to attack Israel.
Even at the moment that the Israeli the bombs were falling on Beirut and tiro, Saudi Arabia, perhaps the Muslim Arab country more conservative, openly condemn the actions of hizbulah, which are a shií organisation, to instigate the conflict with Israel.
before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict, a state which takes account of the leader of the Arab Muslim peoples have never supported to Israel so openly.
Further, it breaks in Saudi Arabia, with hizbulah is not an isolated.
Egypt and Jordan have also condemned to emphatically hizbulah and its leader, Sheik Morocco Nasrallah, because of their lack of responsibility.
What is behind this surprising attitude?
We are witnessing a fundamental change in the relationship between the Arab nationalism and the Islamic sectarianism?
is concerned and shocked Saudi Arabia more before the Shia Muslims that the Arab unit and the Palestinian cause committed to?
The allegations of the Arabs against hizbulah suggest that sectarian division between Muslims, already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, it is being deepened and making more intensively in the Middle East.
The desire of President George W. Bush remecer the standstill societies of the Arab world intended to raise the forces of the modernisation of the traditional elements of the Arab and Islamic societies.
Instead of this, it appears to have started the most atavic forces in the region.
to open the Pandora's box can have given the beginning of a new and bitterer era of widespread violence, which can only be called a 'Muslim civil war'.
The division between chiíes and suníes has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical and ethnic isolation of nonarab Shia Iran, together with the domination of the suníes Arab countries on its chiíes minorities, to a large extent, had this rivalry in context.
These tensions backwards yet further with the Islamic tide created by the Iranian revolution, because after the Arab sectarian identity even lost more weight as a general 'Islamic' identification arose.
All of this changed by the IDA, a suní terrorist force which is heavily based on the ideology of the Saudi wahabíes and its people, set up its attacks on the United States in September 2001.
There was a specifically suní arm of the militant Islamism.
When the United States started to their wars against the Taliban suníes of Afghanistan and the suní regime in Iraq, this new radical suní ordinary was even strengthened.
The suníes Arabs in the region, with its new determination, perceived by Israel and the West are only one of the threats, while the other is called 'growing Shia', the land arc stretching from Lebanon to Iran, via Syria and Iraq, inhabited by the supposed heretical chiíes.
The rulers of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the most sacred places of the Muslim faith in Mecca and Mr Medina, so time are more inclined to feel this threat.
In the eyes of the suníes, the chiíes not only master oil the rich areas of Iran, Iraq and the eastern region of Saudi Arabia, but that -- through the actions of hizbulah- they are trying to usurp the role of "protectors' of the central dream of all the Arabs, the Palestinian cause.
the Saudi government has become against hizbulah due to the fact that the Saudi royal family derives its legitimacy of a strict form of suní Islam and doubts the loyalty of her Shia population.
Ironically, the United States, the traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, is the one who has made the strengthening of the chiíes, when it has been overturned Saddam Hussein, taking to the chiíes parties in power in Iraq.
The Bush administration seems to recognise what it has done as does the Shia arc is growing in the east of the Muslim Arab world, the United States is seeking to strengthen the protection of the suní Arco (Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia) in the west of the region.
Israel, once the implacable enemy of the Arab cause, now seems to have been integrated into the defensive structure.
However, a defensive position with these characteristics is intended to be unstable, due to the feelings panárabes.
Today, the ordinary Saudi citizens following the events of Gaza and the South Lebanon through the Jazeera and other networks of TV by satellite.
They see Arab blood is dumped (nonchií), and that only hizbolah responds to the attacks.
In their eyes, hizbolah has become a model of heroic resistance.
This is causing the Saudi government to deepen the divide between suníes and chiíes.
After the official accusations of the Kingdom of hizbulah, the Saudi government announced its official wahabíes clerics to make fatuas being condemned to hazbolah as an organisation of herejes and schismatic chiíes.
This type of sentences cannot do more than exacerbate divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.
As these hostilities are strengthened, will come to believe the suníes regimes that they have their own hizbulah your corner of the world?
If they come to that conclusion, they do not have to look for a great deal, because these milicianos that have already been released by the IDA.
Georgia in the minds of Europe
The time that Europe could rely on the United States to wage war, to achieve peace and to establish democracy in its own back yard finished.
As recently demonstrated the crisis of the Russian gas, with the enlargement of the EU to the back yard now covers not only the Ukraine, but also to Georgia.
In fact, such as the Ukraine and Georgia is facing a test its democracy, that Europe cannot afford to ignore.
Georgia was the first country post-Soviet in launching a "revolution of colours' and in demonstrating, with dignity and maturity, the European option of its people by the democracy and values.
The flags of the European Union that since then have waved in all public buildings of Georgia are a sign of this natural and as a former accession as the history of a country to the ancient Greeks was an integral part of the well-known world.
Prometheus, medea, Amazonia, and in the Armenian neighbour, Noah of Noah that the Europe of our myths starts here.
With its history, culture and traditions (including its critical, independent and even rebel spirit in the former Soviet Union), Georgia would appear to be an ideal candidate for a successful democratization.
By the same, it is even more worrying is the one that is collapsing.
Everything seemed well enough to have begun.
There were no resistance to the political reforms, privatisation, the anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders nonstained with adjustments under the old system, and the implementation of a European foreign policy.
Since then, however, a totalitarian thinking in leaders have reappeared who, under the pretext of represent the will of the majority, become more and more power.
As the spectre of the ancient Greeks, the political elite of Georgia is never end dying and occurs again.
The same people and methods of government who tried to defeat the "Rosado Fernandes revolution 'of November 2003 have reappeared in the centre of power, through the use of their networks of relations, which they extend beyond the limits of the country, as well as their terrible in unison wealth and sound management skills and intrigues policy.
All this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which does not consist merely of the ballot boxes, but in the separation of powers.
The government interferes in the affairs of the European Parliament, which in turn is trying to control the details of the executive? what in my case it included the nomination of ambassadors and their agendas.
Finally, and what is more serious, the judicial authority is not yet independent, which undermines the rule of law and prevent the private investment, both are needed.
The democracy of Georgia is on its head, but not yet in their bodies: the citizens still underestimate the policy as a dirty business, leaving it to those who should long ago have pensioners.
However, the hope of democracy is strongly rooted in the people, the citizens' organisations and the media.
Now it is time for Europe to make sure that this hope has not been extinguished.
The United States has done everything it can to support the political stability in Georgia, since its independence.
There is no doubt that the stability was not always equivalent to democracy in the government of Eduard Shevardnadze, the former Secretary of State of the former Soviet Union, which was removed from power over the Rosado Fernandes revolution.
However, the Americans invested generously to support democratic survival of the ideas and leaders.
Although the basis supported by the financista George Soros did not make the Rosado Fernandes revolution, as they say, the Russian nationalist, certainly fostered, encouraged and supported the preconditions for democracy.
However, to help to consolidate its democracy, Georgia now needs the support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to give.
The models of balance of powers, exploitation of the judiciary and local democracy must be created by the European forms, which is closer to the Georgian reality which the Anglo-Saxon model of the American type.
If Europe does not accept this challenge, it would fail to meet their fundamental duties in a place (small Mediterranean, flexible, with former historical traditions) where democracy has many more chance of success than in the Ukraine, which is enormous and where a Soviet mentality still prevails, not to mention to Central Asia.
In fact, not to support the burgeoning democracy in Georgia would probably delay the democratic progress in the Ukraine, Belarus and even the same Russia.
This is clearly what is at stake.
Even if Russia has never resigned to their dreams and Imperial instruments of domination, was being abandoned the inevitability of democracy, at least in the margins.
But this reluctance to accept a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of famous irrational 'derzhava' Russian: ethos aggressive that glorify the state and assert its strength by means of the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to include / understand the recent crisis in the Russian gas.
It is as safe as any sign of decline of democracy in Georgia and the other Member post-soviets will not do more than to give impetus to the Russian neoimperial ambitions.
It is the responsibility of Europe to convince Russia that there are no hope of a return to the past.
Europe must take on this role, not only to secure future independence its energy supply, but also to show that the European values of freedom, democracy and justice between the peoples of Europe have a real force.
In order to achieve this, it must be equipped with the necessary instruments: a great semi-public foundation to promote Europe and to support the political reforms, a university to shape the future chief executive of the emerging democracies, a police task force and a set of judges and magistrates to give life to the models that we wish to emulate.
Above all, Europe needs conviction.
If today's Europe cannot be convinced that it has a keen interest in the future of its neighbours, who will think tomorrow in Europe?
