 Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
 We need to know as fifteen campaign in order to be able to receive in good conditions for those countries that are knocking at our door.
 In Article 87 must be included in the scope of the existential assistance with social and cultural charitable purposes, so that these important institutions can enjoy a lasting protection.
 Some argue that it is possible to create an internal market in Europe without agree on basic principles and values.
 I welcome the important and substantial speech by President Prodi.
 You know that this is a deliberate decision which took place in Amsterdam, perfectly able to distinguish the two roles, the High Representative, unlike the Commission, not manifests itself in complete independence, but has the task of coordinating common foreign and security policies which are the responsibility of the Member States and in this case we have to make perhaps broad scope for intergovernmental aspect.
 The Presidency has asked to draw in Nice the path for the future.
 Indeed, we want to see more and better, but I think in all honesty that this is a good start.
 Consequently, I trust that the European Council of Nice should be associated with this project and decides to initiate it specifically as a project, not as a fait accompli after having adopted naturally reforms that now need.
 However, I have also indicated that specifically based on this, we can achieve objectives extremely important in the Community method with which we have at present, for example, for better action in the Balkans.
 Only if we manage to involve Russia to the West, and the European Union, we will be able to influence its policy and maintain contact and dialogue with this country.
 Motion for a resolution (B5-0767 / 00) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union
 This is genocide and tries to eliminate the freedom of the press and the rule of law, whose existence is already precarious.
 Precisely in order to respond to the expectations of this pensioners who called Giuseppe Italia, and live in Cremona and that would like to surf the Po, I voted in favour of the Piecyk report on the promotion and the development of seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals.
 - (DE) The result of the vote in this Parliament will make it impossible to achieve the objective of the directive, an objective that was recognised and we have heard all the speakers and the Commission.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the Skinner report, as I said during the previous debate to the vote, because I think that venture capital is important.
 My group colleague Armonie Bordes incisive pointed out yesterday, which only a minority has an interest in the transfer of Community money and contributions of retirement pensions to the risks of entrepreneurs.
 Consequently, the Charter will serve to confirm the current practices, even retrograde, of the national States, instead of representing a step forward.
 Mr President, at last we have a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European citizen which contains an article, Article 25, entirely devoted to the elderly.
 In principle this text may seem anodyne, because it contains basically existing rights. But if it is incorporated into the Treaty with binding force, as the European Parliament, with the time automatically tend to the harmonization of national laws in Europe; a disproportionate power would give the Court of Justice; promote greater centralisation around the European institutions; it would limit the scope for independent choice of each nation.
 · must be avoided an overload the burden with detailed regulation, which should be reserved for the provisions of rank lower.
 I will be voting for another letter, participating in the demonstrations in Biarritz, on 13 and 14 October and in Nice on 7 December 2000.
 Progress towards accession of the 12 candidate countries
 In my opinion, several Member States have not understood the existence of this link and the hesitant progress of the Intergovernmental Conference can lead to great difficulties in carrying out enlargement in the timescale.
 We can only lead to in practice with lasting nature all issues that I have said so far if politics and leader of the candidate countries and the European Union - and here I agree with you, Commissioner, to make clear to the public that the enlargement of the European Union is itself benefit.
 This is the formula adopted.
 Let me mention now the second approach according to which the Presidency wishes to make progress during this six-month period, the enlargement process.
 What I propose, therefore, is to work in this direction, with the idea that we should examine the prospect of 2003, what are the candidate countries that could join in that date.
 I thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok, on his wide-ranging and explanatory report, as well as the other rapporteurs.
 In these negotiations is not the case if no "...", but the 'how' and 'will ".
 But have also achieved because the prospect of membership of the European Union gives them hope in the solidarity of the European peoples and because this will require strong political and economic fundamentals.
 Several countries have recorded, with regard to the second economic criterion of competitiveness in the internal market, such considerable progress that is approaching rapidly to fulfilling the requirements for membership.
 Therefore, we intend to that coordination with the programmes of the national governments, the European Parliament and other institutions is as close as possible.
 In any country of the accession we await with great concern the opinion which the Commission submits annually on its progress, it will again be issued shortly, on 8 November.
 We have chosen, and rightly, the principle of differentiation, according to which each candidate country will be judged on its own merits.
 This debate represents another opportunity to my political group to stress that the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and also of Cyprus and Malta, is the best guarantee of future for all of us in Europe, in both the East and the West.
 It is a matter of the utmost importance and, despite this, interestingly, has hardly been public attention.
 People spent jokes by saying that after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, enlargement remains to five years.
 The next opportunity will be natural in connection with the following elections to the European Parliament in the year 2009, but we want to make the greatest possible number of countries can join in 2004.
 Moreover, there are six the substance that we care about the method.
 In reality, we are swimming in the model of European construction, namely the simultaneous integration of all sectors of activity, beyond the traditions or the specific characteristics of each other, turns again in a trap.
 Your words have the support of the President of the Central Bank Hungarian: "The European Union should give the appropriate signals". Otherwise, Eastern Europe suspected or accused that Europe is not working seriously on enlargement, something that could lead to a dangerous disappointment about the promises of Brussels - and I quote the Hungarian spokesman.
 But things must be clear: we cannot have an income on the cheap.
 This is an idea that is also a great idea: we do not achieve the enlargements against the opinion, and the best way to achieve the enlargement with the opinion is its participation in elections, as the elections are an expression of democracy and the method of accession of the citizens in the political system.
 . (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something briefly about the preconditions of desired scenario here by several parties.
 I would be very surprised if they were not this pressure.
 But I have already indicated that all countries are relatively quickly to be ready for accession.
 This means that the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products is already agreed without the Poles have the concern that sink their agriculture.
 It has taken efforts, but, in general, peace and trade have established stronger links between citizens, now even more solid with monetary union.
 What consideration must be the outcome of the negotiations.
 The only amendment that has been tabled is already covered in my report, but I am delighted that the Green Group wishes to stress the importance of equal treatment for citizens.
 This is not only a law on public service but also that there are opportunities for young employees of the administration and an appropriate remuneration.
 This applies both to Latvia and the European Union.
 It is planned lita the linking of the euro in the second half of the year 2001.
 . (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, Poland, the country for which I am the rapporteur, is the greatest and most important, but, as we know, it is also the most problematic countries who are preparing to enter the European Union, which is so problematic that voices were heard about their possible exclusion of the first group of countries which will be included in the first place.
 Poland, to the countries of Eastern Europe, the countries that have done too were Communist unfulfilled promises.
 There is one point that is always presented when it comes to the Czech Republic. Is the problem of the gypsies.
 Slovakia is not condemned to the second group, and it is only logical that wants to join when it does the Czech Republic.
 At the same time, I would like, finally, to make an observation on domestic policy.
 Thirdly, as regards agriculture, whose level of productivity is even lower than that in the European Union, it is important to ensure the total opening up of the agricultural market to capital necessary for the privatisation of land, the modernisation of farms and marketing structures, as well as for the improvement of incomes.
 Bulgaria is waiting with bated breath to join the European Union and to NATO.
 The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990, and with the current government the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
 I trust that these affairs become the priorities of the new Parliament which will take up in a fortnight's time, and the new government.
 But we also point out that the final solution, fair and learning should fully respect both the relevant resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations, which is neither more nor less than the current international law and the principles governing the European Union.
 Malta is a democratic and stable institutions that function.
 - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we want to make our contribution to this debate.
 They must also be applied. The European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be in the candidate countries a law in action.
 This transformation raises tough demands on people in the candidate countries, but at the same time ensuring their future and the future of their children.
 Special attention must be paid - in what I concur with the previous speaker - to the border regions.
 In this context, it should not be left alone to the Commission.
 The candidate countries want to achieve rapid economic growth, even if it takes place at the expense of a policy for the protection of nature previously established.
 We are faced with a traffic to and from bad habits, many of them linked to health.
 Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a strong and united European continent.
 The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which is competent in the dominance of the transport and of the trans-European networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the various sectoral Community policies in favour of a global policy of land-use planning.
 But first I would like to make the point that the transport infrastructure will be crucial for the success of enlargement.
 . (DA) Mr President, I join in the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is now the greatest task facing the EU.
 There has been great pressure on social values traditional in Central and Eastern Europe.
 The PPE Group does not want to impinge on the responsibilities of the candidates on the pace of accession, since we cannot give a date for this.
 The second point is the mention of dates.
 There is also another reason.
 Thirdly: acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the various countries and for the EU in its entirety depend - as Denmark has proved largely to reduce the social and democratic deficits of European policy.
 Populism is the epithet shameful that technocrats attributed to the popular will when it was expressed in a sense that they do not.
 Ladies and gentlemen, have a pause to eat and relax. We will proceed at 9.00 p.m.
 In a more long-term perspective, we will have a single currency across the continent.
 On these issues focus internal battles in each of the countries.
 We were fighting for a different Europe of all the peoples, which has been freed from all these features inhumane, where the people are masters of their fate, develop relations of peace, freedom, fraternity, mutual cooperation beneficial.
 I have publicly praised the work of these organisations and, in particular, the Romanian 'appeal which is based in Birmingham and other Irish organisations supported by many people, including Daniel o'donnell observed, artist Irish varieties, which promised a million pounds and brought in that amount in Ireland and other parts of the world.
 The Nice Summit must provide clarity above all on whether and how the EU is to act on its part to be in a position to enlarge itself in depth and in time.
 The Polish people ask: are we pay when we espouse or will we be second-class status?
 I am sure that, with goodwill and with the help of the European Union, it will be possible to find a solution which would allow the two communities live in harmony and prosper as they have done for centuries.
 But we have also addressed the question of minorities, because the issue of the integration of these minorities, including the linguistic integration, is also of importance in these countries.
 The requirement for membership is, essentially, the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
 We have been talking about the benefits of enlargement, and that is one of the areas in which Lithuania shows us the way.
 Imagine if we were all as them!
 Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank and congratulate Mr Brok and the other rapporteurs, but, first of all, I should like to confine myself to Slovakia, more specifically, to the political situation of minorities.
 I urge them to determine a nice date when they provide to conclude the negotiations with the candidate countries that are most advanced without mentioning names.
 The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in their progress for the entry into the Union and, of course, making the planning of that aid is even more decentralised.
 The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups of civil society, the government and Parliament plays an important role in this regard and, as we have seen, also positive.
 We are finishing with the division of Europe into two, not by creating a new division.
 All this is contained in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and congratulate him very sincerely on behalf of our group on this report.
 From this point of view, I believe that the issue of Cyprus is the most will determine Europe ’ s ability to see its specific policies.
 I live near the Baltic Sea, which concerns us all.
 The political vision remains the same.
 Therefore, I was very glad to hear Mr Klaus Hänsch, who has spoken on behalf of the PSE Group, when he hoped that the Commission presents a real trial on the consequences of enlargement, and also on the economic impact that would ensue if it does not carry out enlargement.
 However, I share the opinion of our rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, that without transitional periods cannot operate in the interests of both parties. Precisely as an MEP of a border region, like Mrs Schierhuber, possesses an agricultural farm near the Czech border, it is very important that arise more approximate common economic areas without further problems and which lead to positive results on both sides.
 I should like to highlight three aspects such as social democrats.
 The EEA, which are included in the issues of the first pillar, will make it possible to access the economies of the candidate countries to the internal market and will give young people and science the right to take part in the exchange programmes, but, on the other hand, will not force the EU to widen its agricultural aid to these countries. In this way, the EEA Agreement would give a positive impetus, primarily, to the economies of the candidate countries - in need of growth in order to bring their societies in conditions of candidate States their opinion - but also to the national economies of the EU, since it is estimated that, through economic growth, could cover even two thirds of the total costs of enlargement, and perhaps even more if we went to the model of the EEA.
 Secondly: let us say no to the idea of accepting big-bang to a large group of applicant countries at the same time, as that would run counter to the principle that the countries are accepted on its own merits.
 Thirdly: we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 the European Union for the enlargement process in the sense of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
 In this context, I should like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council and point out that recently the Council responds with substantial delay to written questions of Members.
 It is worrying that this is happening in a country that is going to join the European Union.
 I call for referral back to committee in their preparation.
 . (SV) Mr President, today we are going to discuss and vote perhaps three reports dealing with this matter, two of whom are mine.
 All those involved in the food chain will benefit.
 Safe food have a cost in the whole food chain.
 We must therefore support Mrs Paulsen and the Commission, and adopting the principle of no-disolución, to give certainty to animal feed and genuinely to protect European consumers.
 The 1999 directive is a text thoughtful and can already show some success, since you have managed to reduce demonstrable damage the burden.
 But simply admit the possibility of "dilute" products is not the solution.
 Very quickly, that we must insist on Amendment No 37 on dioxin.
 On this point, we are in agreement.
 For this reason, the outcome is that, as European consumers, we will have to continue to buying meat and milk and beef products produced in world markets with feed that bear no relation to the thresholds and the limit values which have established as a European Union, and with a production system of animal feed which acquires raw materials in the international markets, free of mixing any principle and wording before marketing their products in the territory of the Union.
 Before the second reading, we need to know the Commission's view on how we will risk assessment.
 On the contrary, it would be unfortunate if they were adopted, for example, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, because that would mean that the possibility for Member States to intervene quickly confront the new dangers are discovered.
 Consumer protection begins with animal feed, for the content of feed his statement and, finally, its administrative control.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report of Mrs Paulsen on undesirable substances in animal nutrition deals with an important subject which, as all the important issues, raises many discrepancies.
 Mr President, the discussion on this excellent report by Mrs Paulsen had emotional undertones in a few points, and I think that, once completed this debate, we should proceed on the basis that the requirements of the industry for cattle fodder are certainly strict but then we can do that quality is amended by adding components.
 These three proposals address, individually and collectively, the serious shortcomings that the dioxin crisis has brought to light.
 Amendment No 33 removes the possibility of re-exporting the country of origin non-regulatory lines.
 Amendments Nos 41, 42, 43 and 44, which seek to introduce the possibility of dilution under certain conditions of raw materials for the contaminated feed, are also unacceptable.
 That should be enough, bearing in mind our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering the whole of the food chain and animal feed in the new proposal on the food authority.
 Commissioner Byrne, following this directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs underlies the fund an old problem, namely, the open declaration.
 This is already a profit that has brought me this morning 's sitting.
 If we do so, if they so transponemos quickly and also quickly if we are completing the codecision procedure, without a doubt, we will have gained a lot, and I am sure that we will be able to maintain a strong and unanimous position before the Council.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the future too can happen again, or at least it cannot be ruled out that in animal feed was contaminated raw materials introduced.
 The BSE scandal was the worst example and better known.
 Common sense - what our rapporteur has said - would obviously be have a label open, to present the list of ingredients.
 I believe that the technical qualifications and competence of the members of the Committee on Agriculture to judge on the issues related to agriculture and also with animal feed is undisputed from the point of view of the search for a solution with a practical guidance and practicable, farmers and consumers concerned can implement and understand.
 Here the positive side.
 In my opinion, is a legitimate right to information which must be satisfied.
 I would ask, Madam President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries and on my own behalf, to convey the condolences of the House to the families of the victims and to the local authorities of both Britain and Marín, Galicia, where they are most of the victims.
 (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 Is anyone opposed to the tabling of this oral amendment?
 That is precisely as the rapporteur explained things.
 The majority of its technical proposals deserve to be supported enthusiastically, for example those relating to food safety, the decommissioning of nuclear power plants of first generation, protection of the environment, the fight against social dumping, the requisite code of conduct of businesses in the West when working in the East, etc. It is a huge task, and also absolute priority.
 At the same time, to overcome barriers are considerable, above all at the level of the budget.
 Enlargement to thirteen countries not only modifies the geopolitical context of the European Union, but also to alter its structure, because the total population will increase (+ 28%), but at the same time, will the number of disadvantaged regions "."
 In this context, we must bear in mind that, due to its strong economic and social weight, a competitive agriculture and food industry will have a crucial for the success of the process of transformation and restructuring of the candidate countries.
 In this respect, I would like to see the outermost regions, which 6 every 7 remain in the Group of the 10 poorest of the EU, benefit from the Structural Funds, not only on the basis of a single criterion of GDP, but also on the basis of geographical and demographic indicators, especially social.
 As we reject it, for the sake of the French, we cannot, in all conscience, approve its extension to the countries and the peoples of Eastern Europe, barely released from the Communist dictatorship, which cannot yet know the technocratic and totalitarian trap in which they wish to fall.
 We should be content with the national reports and, at most, a brief resolution but full of content.
 The current system, with subsidies, grants and quotas, must be replaced by free trade and the adequacy of the markets.
 The importance and the extent of the problems arising from enlargement are incompatible with the double language which has been used on it within the European Union.
 For me to talk about enlargement does not recognise membership or non-party of some countries to Europe.
 Our neighbouring country has worked with determination during the last ten years in order to meet the criteria for accession.
 Latvia has its place in this Chamber, not only because its progress overall, give you the right to this "confidence" essential to complete a successful negotiation of this kind, but, above all, and above all, because in Europe is at home.
 Gawronski with this report. I believe that Poland is the rule, among all those who have applied for membership, which deserves more than others our support, given that, without the very important initiatives of Poland, would not have fallen Communism and today we are talking here about this problem.
 This is not perhaps so obvious to the population, which remains largely eurosceptic.
 I urge that this signal, Prague to accept this request, this request to establish a dialogue, and to respond to him and to ensure, together with this House, so that it is possible to overcome this legacy of an era nationalistic.
 I welcome the Wiersma report on Slovakia's application for membership of the European Union and I share most of the conclusions of the rapporteur.
 I am very happy to seize this opportunity to address a very special greeting the elderly and pensioners in the Bulgarian Republic. As stated in the report by Mr.
 If Romania is making progress, and the European Union adapts his institutional structure and its policies in order to cope with enlargement, I see no reason why that Romania should not be admitted to the Union.
 Whatever solution is to be taken with regard to the settlers, and is one of the difficult issues, together with the return of land on both sides, it is too hard, if we do not do some qualification.
 Unfortunately, some of the comments that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy pouring in the draft report on Cyprus' s membership application to the European Union does not make matters easier.
 This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of good will in the Turkish part of Cyprus and Turkey.
 Stenzel report (A5-0243 / 2000)
 Unfortunately, I did indeed have a slight food poisoning in the European Parliament.
 For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the prohibition of the dissolution proposal in the European Commission.
 We must urge the ASEM States in this resolution to put pressure on the military regime in Burma to restore democracy.
 We are partial in our approach and implementation.
 We cannot afford to be overcautious.
 Some important aspects of the regulation are: firstly, the regulation of the burden of proof.
 Equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the EU.
 That is why we need legislation against discrimination.
 In part, as a result, we have before us a great deal of legal and technical amendments that seek to ensure a level of equal treatment against discrimination on grounds of race, on the one hand, and on the grounds of religion, disability, age and sexual orientation, on the other hand.
 We had to make an effort to balance, moderation and good legal technique and his report reflects - in my opinion - these qualities.
 I also believe that the instances of discrimination are not as many as to merit such legislation.
 In the action programme there are not enough funds to replace this work is proceeding in the fifth framework programme and, hopefully, be monitoring in all the other framework programmes, although we will have to ensure that are compatible.
 Everyone agrees that we must fight against discrimination, but opinions differ as to how, to what extent and with what methods.
 Had the opportunity, in the Commission, makes against the fact that experts could also be outside the NGOs and yet have things to say.
 We are also very satisfied with the provision of the directive which demonstrates that equal treatment for disabled also means that is expected of companies conducting adjustments in the workplace.
 Only then will effectively combating discrimination in all areas of human coexistence in Europe.
 After all, as we learn from the large Anglo-Saxon liberal democracies, racism and discrimination are fighting with liberal democracy and not with the restriction or the progressive erosion of freedom of opinion and expression, association and economic ones.
 We have a proposal which raises homosexuality in the same category as the Holy marriage.
 Strengthening the positions of the European Union to specific situations suffered by their inhabitants with regard to discrimination and equal treatment.
 I would also like to dwell on the issue of the exclusion of religion.
 There are those who have expressed their concern about the possible interpretation of the recitals relating to Article 1, which, once again, might seem unclear, but they make a distinction between sexual orientation and behaviour.
 So there are a hierarchy of discrimination.
 In New Caledonia preference is given on the basis cromática skin.
 The first positive element of the directive is the universal approach which envisages the treatment of discrimination, which is of particular importance if we want a proper implementation of the directive.
 So those who come here to say that Europe must not pick up on a directive the values that we all want to defend, are being confused.
 We should not interfere in these achievements we found in such efforts.
 Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
 Experience has also shown that the promotion of legislative measures in the fight against discrimination is essential, but it is not enough.
 We must avoid unnecessary red tape, that the only thing that will be going to reduce Europe to a purely mercenary entity, politically correct, but meaningless.
 I think that this Parliament embellished as if it were a Christmas tree the little advanced legislation that the Commission would have wanted to put on the table.
 I would like to start by thanking both rapporteurs, Mrs Mann and Mr Cashman, in this excellent report.
 To accept the amendments which seek to highlight the importance of preventing and combating discrimination.
 The second category is intended to clarify the text of the Commission proposal and the third covers a large number of amendments that seek to adapt the present proposal to the directive on the race, adopted last June.
 In particular, the Amendments 9, 10 and 20 propose the deletion of the reference to discrimination on the grounds of racial and ethnic origin.
 I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as to the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
 The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
 We cannot expect a public support of the operations of establishing peace, if our troops are exposed to die as a result of shells from weapons that we ourselves have supplied.
 In my own country, to own a scatter-gun need a licence, but not for instalarme as seller of weapons in a cobertizo my garden.
 Another important point is the export ban, promotion and marketing of equipment and know-how employees to inflict torture.
 Having said this, I would naturally like to congratulate our colleague Mr Titley on his excellent report.
 We must extend our examination, on the one hand, in addition to the issues of binding force, also other non-fisheries-related aspects to strict equipment for military use, such as the disarmament and increasing the effectiveness of the body police and the customs authorities, and then, on the other hand, the countries applying for accession, as already mentioned by Mr Wiersma.
 Control over the money circuit emphatically makes it more difficult to evade the provisions on the trade in arms.
 The purpose of the annual report is to discover possible improvements.
 The European Union is currently examining the possibility of continuing the project after its expiry in November of this year.
 We have defined a methodology and indicators and will be presented at the next Council "research."
 Thank you, Commissioner.
 As regards the problems of SMEs, of course we have seen that in the framework programme, SMEs play their part, as foreseen in the budget decisions.
 That is, at least, which seems colegirse of the debate on the budget in Greece; the fact is that many invoke the views of the European Union. Is it true?
 As regards the pluridisciplinaridad, I share your view.
 The first is that specifically mentioned in his report the EU participation in national programmes.
 It is not therefore possible to speak of a European research area if we only represent 5% of this research.
 Thank you, Mr Busquin.
 On the one hand, and after the effort made to fully commit funds at the end of 1999, requests for instance at the beginning of this year for the financing of new projects were necessarily very low.
 But I repeat that Portugal did well in the previous period. What I would simply like to point out - and I will give you the figures for 26 September, is that the funds really committed by Portugal and for the new period (I am only Commissioner from one year ago) achieve 2.6%.
 Question No 2 by (H-0730 / 00):
 Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions uses on mineral oils and consumption will not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
 Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in those cases in which the Member States contribute tax by means of specific sector of industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case the aid State Prosecutor, which amounts to a subsidy.
 For example, nuclear energy is a very clear and appropriate.
 Subject: budget line relating to minority languages budgetary resources that the European Union spends since 1983 in favour of minority languages were a constant increase in 1995, a year in which reached their maximum amount, EUR 4 million.
 . (DE) Mr President, Members of Parliament, you are no doubt aware that the Structural Funds - and this is new - many resources allocated to cultural activities, because I insisted, Michel Barnier, in that they are not only to invest in roads and airports but also in people.
 So that next year the Commission will formulate new financial commitments in this regard.
 In relation to the specific proposal for financing, it is not possible for me to take a position, because we must respect the normal procedures.
 . (SV) I thought in many alternatives.
 And it is a reality that we have to face, because we are talking about millions of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe.
 Do the rules relating to the treatment of products of the elk hunting, for example, also apply to the meat used for their own use?
 If these rules were applied to the meat they are consuming hunters, would mean a disaster bureaucratic elk hunting.
 When we have completed this report, I intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of inadequate compliance with time limits of the meetings in the coming weeks.
 At the meeting I had with the Group of the Greens has already discussed this issue.
 Our question was clear: what measures is the Commission taking? '.
 General product safety also obliges manufacturers to provide consumers with information about the risks.
 The case of Maryam ayubi is extremely worrying.
 Question No 14 by (H-0745 / 00):
 The attitude of the EU on this ministerial meeting in Vientiane and if, indeed, it must take place or at what level must be represented in the EU it will depend on the evolution of the situation in Burma in December.
 One final observation.
 Elections are an important step for the population of Kosovo participate in the administration of their communities.
 I can tell you that the development of these elections has been more democratic, better than the elections in our own countries, in which I have participated or on many occasions I was an observer.
 What we saw as a principle and not, in any way, as the end of the process.
 The report calls for better control and more closed on the arms trade and for greater transparency.
 Now I find that every year increase the contracts for weapons and weapons components.
 We cannot take real decisions based on information and realities apparent.
 The provision whereby stayed together in the same directorate-general should be subject to review.
 Although these institutions must have the option to appoint an internal auditor, it is enough to impose certain minimum requirements of auditing the financial controller.
 This proposal does not meet with the unanimous approval of this Parliament as the Commissioner well knows.
 Therefore, we have no objection to the creation of an independent internal audit service, to which we give the green light today with the report of my colleague, Mr van Hulten.
 Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
 Modernising the administration is urgently needed in our view.
 An independent audit is essential to avoid mistakes.
 The money must be spent in the future in a more realistic way to the objectives and more effective, and of course we must also ensure that funds are used for the purposes for which the allocated by the budgetary authority.
 With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like to mention very briefly: the Commission accepts the introduction of additional recital.
 Therefore, I would like to thank you for your proposals and the Council.
 I would like to sum up the proposals in this report which seem to me to be more important and specifically viable. First, the creation of a group of experts composed of recognised standing by personalities, appointed by the Member States, to help establish parameters media minimum protection of minors; secondly, the creation of a code of self-regulation between all operators in the sector; third, the possibility of promoting and become accessible filter systems for both television and the Internet.
 Unfortunately, I cannot subscribe to the requests of the Liberals.
 This remains essentially task of the legislation of the Member States, which does not exclude, however, the possibility of a consensual agreement at European level on certain indicative values, through dialogue with all the parties involved.
 However, and equality in other circumstances, I believe that it is the task of the parents to deter their children to see this type of programme at home.
 Parents need special support in this area, which must include the following: common parameters for the protection of minors media throughout the territory of the European Union; the installation and the possibility of having filter systems at affordable prices; legal provisions relating to the protection of minors and the responsibility of the media, companies and suppliers in the public and private sectors.
 Then I am surprised, and this is a euphemism, hearing some say, during the debates in committee, that there is no proof that may have harmful influences, on children, violence on television in all its forms.
 As regards the introduction of a code of self-regulation, it should be noted, particularly from a technical point of view, that in certain Member States have already introduced broadcasters codes of adjustment for television screens that should allow parents cut off the flow.
 The debate is closed.
 In particular, my report replaces the valuable international generalisations for a referral back, in fact, of the decisions to the Member States.
 That would be the least to give us this area of freedom is a fundamental right of every citizen of Europe.
 There are still things, Mr President, that have not been paid since 1996.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Evans and Mr Mantovani too, for the work he has done.
 I would recommend this report to the House and I would urge support for the amendments tabled by Mr Evans.
 Our human resources are our only future in a world where knowledge is what counts.
 Will not solve the problems with Green Papers, White, black, red or but with concrete action.
 But the European Parliament, and is its role, Parliament pressed for researchers were despite everything included in the same text.
 Today we visit at a crucial time for the future of European construction.
 However, we know that the process has not ended and that their inconclusión threat their vitality.
 If we do not say now, at this delicate and tumultuosa stage of European and world history, when can we?
 None of us can now claim to know exactly when and how sequence to achieve these objectives. However, we all know that believe in them and deseándolos fervently hope, will have gone the halfway stage.
 We must ensure that women benefit from the work involved, to prevent the recurrence of the same inequalities in the more traditional industries: a part-time jobs less specialized, sometimes not elected, precarious contracts and difficulty of access to jobs.
 This will be submitted to the Council a proposal of indicators to measure the progress made in this respect.
 Finally, in a nutshell, the fourth pillar for equal opportunities reaffirms the integrated approach of equality with gender mainstreaming and specific guidelines.
 I am thinking in particular of the violence suffered by them, one of the priority issues of my government action and also know that mobilises in particular to you.
 We know that the reconciliation of family and professional life encourage particularly women, although there is still a studies on the current situation of the family and the role that women play in the same, which is no longer the traditional, given that society has changed a great deal and, in parallel, family structures.
 Sometimes, even colleagues in this Parliament believe that, but this is not the case.
 I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that the equal opportunities begins at home.
 I believe that position and ambiguous embarrassing and deserves, I believe, a thought for projects that are being proposed to us, because it is not certain that with all this desemboquemos in practice.
 In this area there is no equality.
 The image of European women, which develops over the pages of our report, our directives, does not square with Danish those women who oppose most of the euro.
 In this respect I think it significant that the report insists on the need to achieve a numerical balance in all sectors of society, for example in the labour market.
 For this reason I believe that an opportunity has been missed in this report because marriage and the family are completely marginalised.
 This is something that should also take account of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities!
 We have heard that the previous presidency of the Council first reestructuró the Ministry of equal opportunities in their country and then harassment.
 Salaries means of women is still lower, on average, in almost 28% of men, which helps to ensure that women are the majority of poor people and makes its participation in social and political life.
 This is excellent.
 We are now seeing in Europe the impoverishment of women employees and in France, where 15% of them live, at the end of the day, with less than 3.650 French francs per month.
 Not all countries have managed to follow his example and I hope that the example of France stop growing in other countries.
 Obviously, the history of women is very long.
 We must help really the candidates to be at the level of the acquis communautaire.
 But need your help.
 That is not the case, but it is a text satisfactory and, after a long period of reflection and after a wide-ranging debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs chose not to table amendments.
 The Legal Affairs Committee, after a long debate, understood that it was not reasonable to uphold the legal uncertainty for six years, that three years, which is the deadline stipulated, is more than reasonable so that, with the appropriate means and a medium-sized diligence, be able to establish whether there has been no or irregularity in a declaration.
 It is Amendment No 15 relating to fraud.
 The objective of reaching a communication but especially simplified high-quality legislation with a sufficiently flexible, with an improvement in the procedure recaudatorio and with greater adaptation of the provisions in the field of customs formalities, responds to one of the requirements of the single market and has been achieved, to the point that many countries have been based on it quickly in order to participate in international trade.
 Palacio, for his work and for the interest with which you have worked in the drafting of this report.
 Welcome
 I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote which will be expressed, but the truth is that we need to verify the translation of the French version.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
 It is recognised that knowledge of foreign languages is a necessary precondition for mobility.
 We also believe that the Member States themselves should decide the taxes that wishes to pursue.
 I regret therefore that the much-needed proposal to introduce a requirement to retain the documentation for a limited period has not obtained a majority of votes.
 During the negotiations on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we welcome the inclusion of Article 13 concerning discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or sectarian not philosophical beliefs, disability, age and sexual orientation.
 My final point relates to the budget for this programme, that is to say, 98,4 billion, a sum which is, of course, inadequate for the planned measures.
 The arguments put forward in this amendment is explicitly that its purpose is to intervene in the age of the provisions in force in the Member States, which are, however, perfectly justified on the grounds of psychological development and have no impact on the working life.
 In my opinion, also spare everything stipulated in the new Article 12 (a).
 With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
 . (SV) We Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equality in the workplace.
 However, this is only says something of the workforce of an internal audit service and nothing of the financial importance and usefulness of this service.
 The EU has decided to set up a common military capacity to meet the so-called Petersberg missions (the fight against the crisis and conflict resolution outside the territory of the EU) and, however, does not have a common defence policy.
 The world would be safer without arms.
 With this resolution is not to radically reduce arms sales to promote a policy of disarmament, but only regulate to increasing the profits of industrial groups are concerned.
 The Commission communication recognises the problem but not proposes concrete measures because it is ofuscada in the liberalisation of the market and of competitiveness, and therefore no proposal concerns the harsh reality, especially for children, the profligacy of multinational companies, which, in their pursuit of profit, overlook the impact of its programmes and products and move the whole responsibility parents, inviting them in addition to consume new products to protect their children.
 Like the rapporteur, I believe that the measures designed to protect young people from the violent and harmful programmes should not be limited to traditional television, but applied to all media.
 With an average of three hours a day, it is human activity more important after the dream, and for adults, after the work.
 Furthermore, women often 'flexible' jobs; temporary contracts or low wages are typical of the sectors that employ mostly women.
 That still fall as the first victims of cuts in public expenditure, privatisations in the field of health, the right to medical and pharmaceutical care - how much more the right on the programmes of prevention and information.
 B5-0792 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left, on the crisis situation in Peru.
 Mr President, in fact I hope that instead of holding a debate on Latin America as a matter of urgency to discuss this issue following a well-considered discussion in the committees.
 We must ensure that Peru to reach the goal with candidates which are equal to the challenge and be able to respond to the demands of the Peruvian people a renewal policy and a substantial democracy.
 The joint debate is closed.
 Now, we know that Afghanistan is not far off, that Afghanistan is the biggest world producer of opiates and, therefore, we know and we can imagine the role played by these mafias policies, which are not only in the expansion of trade in drugs.
 Calls on the Commission to adopt humanitarian aid programmes targeting the Afghan people, not to forget anybody in the territory.
 The suffering caused by this conflict is tremendous.
 For years, a budget line programmes financed clearance and prevention.
 Mrs Paciotti. I can assure you that today to ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources for mine-clearance.
 B5-0794 / 2000 by Mr Medina Ortega, Mr Linkohr and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the kidnapping of a Spanish in Colombia Jesuit participant in the negotiations with the guerillas;
 Unfortunately, all we would not have to turn to Colombia.
 The Commission has already shown its willingness to coordinate the measures of this package. In the coming days intends to allocate substantial resources to this end.
 So, once again, apply two weights and two measures, and I believe that we must deplore.
 The attitude adopted by the Albanian opposition I find it particularly incomprehensible, because that refuses to accept a solution essential deliberately designed to remedy an Albanian problem in Macedonia.
 I think that is something extraordinary that the Macedonians within their country reach agreements with each other.
 However, the government, who has shown enormous courage to find a solution to the problem university and many other matters, needs positive indications as well as strong support. Otherwise, the consequences for peace in the region can be disastrous.
 The PHARE resources earmarked for the year 2000 in the framework of the national programme can also be used to help the university during the next academic year, that is to say, the course 2001-2002.
 I would like to point out that already today all the Greek Members of the European Parliament have reacted to this situation.
 And all this relates to Greece, which has the largest maritime sector throughout the European Union, basically concerns the security of the entire navigation on the whole of the Union.
 In recent years, in our own waters, have been spent many lives at sea, not only in major accidents but also of ferries, far too often, among our fishing community.
 On the contrary, it exploits the innocent victims to encourage wider objectives of shipowners.
 We have to bear in mind that this is also a question of the credibility of the European Union.
 In conclusion I would like to stress that the Commission is absolutely convinced that the problem of the European legal provisions on the safety of passenger ships must be one of the main concerns of the European Union, and that it is a question of ensuring strict and uniform application of the same throughout the Community.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have arrived a little late for reasons that you are very familiar, to make a very brief statement on the two issues which are on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade, and in the ex-república of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
 Commissioner Verheugen is going to speak, as did Mr Solana, on the two issues we are discussing this evening, namely the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
 We must be prepared to meet this promise as we respect the wishes of the people.
 Madam President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, I am taking part in this debate with reservations, because it did not want that Parliament only occurred as a judge authorised to launch calumniates this or that, at a time when, after the hopes so greatly encouraged here a month ago, we face the tragic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the Middle East.
 Madam President, my speech today is not based on a number of analyses, but in my own experiences of last week, as if by chance, I was in Jerusalem and in the Gaza Strip when these disturbances took place there.
 Although I am against all violence, cannot be dealt with in the same yardstick violence Israeli and Palestinian violence.
 I would ask Parliament, at this critical moment, to issue a declaration of support for the brave people who today have stood up for freedom in the streets of Belgrade, echoing the support that we Europeans, not so many years ago we give to those in other capitals also fighting for their freedom.
 Madam President, the Europeans would certainly very inspired if collected flight that we launched the ball here the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
 The position of Jerusalem is complicated issue in the negotiations.
 For years he has managed to mislead the people of his country with its propaganda machine, and the brutal repression of the media and, unfortunately, has also managed to fob off many people in the Western world by creating a false picture of reality.
 While the drama concludes, it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of the united Europe and free, supporting the masses around the Yugoslav parliament and help Mr Kostuníca to achieve and play its mandate.
 Precisely its tough position makes us fear the worst, at the same time - and current events show that these sentences were drafted a few hours ago.
 I wonder whether the Commissioner is already looking at the steps that need to be taken to make it clear that we regard koštunica as the legitimate elected representative of the Serbian people, and as the real partner with whom the European Union wants to speak now.
 The European Parliament wishes to express its full solidarity in this historic moment when the tyranny falters triumphs and democracy.
 The next item is the report (A5-0237 / 2000) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 2000 / 24 / EC so as to extend the Community guarantee granted to the European Investment Bank loans for projects in Croatia (COM (2000) 289 - C5-0336 / 2000 - 2000 / 0122 (CNS)).
 We must welcome the new political direction that began in this country after the legislative and presidential elections.
 Between the EU and Croatia fulfils its functions, among others, a group of consultants whose task is to offer Croatia its experience and technical assistance within the framework of negotiations for the normalisation of relations.
 Let us not forget that, until recently, Croatia a textbook example of a programme of completely failed privatisations, of which only a few benefited. This process should be supported in its entirety.
 The amount of EUR 250 million in the form of a loan from the EIB for the 2000-2007 period which we are debating will not be a milestone, but will help and encouragement.
 That is why it is not totally correct to that in the report of 'democratisation'.
 When Croatia and Slovakia managed for the first time a independence apparent, acted as servants of the Hitler regime.
 We could also, of course, having considered the issue of the request to guarantee and Croatian issue in the context of the debate yesterday evening, and the situation in Belgrade.
 When it appears that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we trust that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies are delayed for only a few days ago.
 I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 6 October 2000.
 (The House rose and observed a minute 's silence)
 My question is this: who is entitled to speak on behalf of the European Parliament on the Statute?
 I would ask you, Madam President, that you will make every effort to speed up the procedure under way in the Committee on Petitions on a letter of protest that have submitted over thirty collective and social NGOs against this situation, in which are blatantly breached the Community rules on radiation protection.
 A post-mortem examination to be carried out as practised in Georgia has clearly shown that it was possible to murder torture.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity for us to take a major step towards our dream - which, incidentally, I do not share.
 This is the basic legislation and the basis for any other rules on genetically modified plants.
 Obviously, it is going from one blunder to another.
 (The sitting was suspended at 5.40 p.m. a.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.)
 The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0291 / 2000) by Mrs van lacker, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council [COM (2000) 379 - 0508 / 2000 - 2000 / 2219 (COS), the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the sociopolitical agenda.
 Thirdly, just one question: to emphasise the importance of this open method of coordination does not mean that this method will replace the social legislation, because we have to set in Europe too, social rights, we must have the courage to draw up minimum social standards and it is essential that there should be a social legislation for the internal European market.
 Similarly, in our opinion, we support the social dialogue and cooperation with civil society and especially with women ’ s associations of the countries which are preparing their accession to the European family, since we must also achieve a uniform development to continue the steps and the logic of the rest of Europe.
 The fields of action listed in the communication of the Commission have also been the subject of an overall agreement.
 I remember, at this stage of my speech, which will be held in Biarritz European a seminar on this subject, which I will chair, on 4 and 5 December.
 With regard to the fight against the exclusions, we have made much progress to define, on 17 October, in the Council on 'employment and social policy, "appropriate objectives of fighting poverty and social exclusion, which will serve as a basis for national action plans.
 I have heard in some circles that, having read the report, are in agreement with the diagnosis, but not with the formula.
 Technological development and new methods of organisation are also in favour of a flexible cooperation where concentrate much more on objectives and to achieve results and less for rigid regulations.
 We must seek out on that side, in our opinion, the obsoleteness that we are criticising those who expect a market without obstacles is the best of all possible worlds.
 Certainly, this has contributed to reducing the discontent among workers in our country and to increase investment in the country from the outside.
 On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
 If we talk of a charter of rights and if we look favourably on a European constitution cannot be estrábicos, but we can say that we have taken all the necessary steps, although this legislation requires more attentive. I do not think that Mrs.
 I would point out critically the lack of initiatives on the new challenges in the workplace protection, on the involvement of employees and in labour relations.
 Mr President, I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner and the Minister, Mrs Péry, for this presentation of the social policy agenda.
 As we know, the Conservatives are opposed to these points. Them our group attaches particular importance.
 The third issue is enlargement.
 The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
 The Commission measures must be supplemented with individual studies on access to health systems and social security systems and pension schemes, about the shortcomings in the organization of work and, perhaps, also on the reduction of working hours.
 In this way, women will feel Europe closer to Europe, and also won with interesting and innovative ideas expressed through its relationship with this programme.
 We expect an annual report of the President of the Commission within the framework of a debate which takes place every year in the European Parliament.
 I am also delighted that it is provided for a better distribution of care of children in order to facilitate the balance between professional life and family life.
 My group will take into account in the final vote.
 (The President cut the speaker off)
 I welcome the new approach of the Commission, and the proposal for a decision for the programme 2001-2005.
 I believe that the large number of amendments adopted shows the common feeling of the European Commission and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
 On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests of companies that have a certain sense of powerlessness following certain decisions on mergers, particularly relating to cases where they have had to go to the decision of the Commission before the Court of First Instance.
 I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner Monti on when we can expect to be put in place, effective and efficient a public register of state aid, and also on when will become a reality long promised the table of results.
 I would also like to say to Commissioner Monti that it is important for the next report we find a paragraph rather more extensive devoted to the financial services sector.
 What I said applies not only to the field of energy policy, but also for all the other areas.
 Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work that has been carried out on both reports which give a positive opinion on both its work and the staff of the Directorate General for Competition.
 I stress this because the market cannot regulate everything in this respect and must not exist and can be unrestricted competition.
 Mr President, today, nobody disputes and, of course, I do not intend to do, that public aid alter the conditions of competition and harmful constitute one element that encourages the inefficiency of companies.
 To hear you deny the fact that public aid have fallen during the period 1994-1998, when the Commission itself acknowledges this reduction, has at least been rather strange.
 And, of course, Mr President, although my opinion relates to the xxix Commission report on competition policy, we cannot now stop looking to the past, but nothing more than to learn for the future.
 Mr President, during the time available to me, I should like to address three points: the modernisation of Community law in the field of competition, the activities undertaken in 1999 in relation to competition rules and the issue of state aid.
 The Commission has followed acting firm and especially against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
 Mr Rapkay, for the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the search for your competition policy, and I do not believe that that support will disappear.
 This mechanism can be activated or at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which is still in force during the third phase of economic and monetary union for the States which, today, as are the subject of an exception, namely Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
 For the future, recourse to the capital market should remain the only option.
 I therefore ask that the report in its present form will meet with the approval of the House and that this can also be used in the field of propagating material grapes in the internal market.
 Today, its review is necessary given the evolution of phytosanitary regulations and the scientific and technical progress made, particularly with regard to in vitro proliferation is concerned
 Furthermore, with this precautionary principle, I believe that refer to the possibility of genetic modifications means, for example, to reduce the intensive use of plant protection treatments. Furthermore, in the sense of the amendments are precaution.
 In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to observe the precautionary principle, both in letter and in spirit, if unfortunately articles and amendments that I have just mentioned are not withdrawn, we would have to abide by the opinion of Marianne Isler Béguin, and therefore of the Committee on the environment, and vote in favour of its abolition.
 Mr President, if I may, Commissioner, could you give us its opinion on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy - that is Amendment No 1.
 The only point on which we could discuss whether or not I should be noted on the French Government I sent the resolution of languor the mandate of Mr Le Pen.
 I would remind the honourable Member that the vote be held later, at 12.30 p.m.
 In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
 The preparatory group will play its full role until 19 November, the date of the next meeting at ministerial level.
 We needed this exciting climate, as has been said by Mr Moscovici and I also felt, at the level of Heads of State or Government, a very serious sense of collective responsibility and historic in a historic moment in European integration.
 Quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that, from now on these matters of the qualified majority, so that we do not find the spirit or below the climate of Biarritz.
 The small countries are not on the orders of the largest countries of the European Union!
 I would appreciate it if the President-in-Office of the Council to clarify this point.
 On the one hand, the presence of President Kostunica was an historic event.
 Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, there are profound disagreements on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council, as you have pointed out.
 It seems to me that we are going in the opposite direction.
 Those who remain outside of enhanced cooperation actually enjoy the same freedom that passengers back seats of a car.
 I am not here, nor the honourable Member, for ingerirme in internal affairs Germans, but I believe that this position is deeply coherent and is, moreover, the line which the Commission wants, if I am not mistaken.
 We have begun to exchange views on this subject, it follows that all Member States wish to maintaining this ceiling after enlargement.
 I believe that this will not happen.
 The first: we have sometimes had the impression that in Biarritz had an obsession with the debate between small and large states.
 From this point of view, I believe that it is not enough to say that we must safeguard the Community method.
 Similarly, when the candidate countries join, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
 The wording of Article 93 is all the more tragic that once achieved the first wave of enlargement, we will find it even more difficult to move towards the qualified majority.
 We need to convince the citizens of these countries to clear the merits of any new European Treaty.
 Imagine that the fears fed for generations could yield without new upsets the definitive appeasement prelude of reconciliation, it would have been to ignore the workings of such a crisis.
 I am also the EU-USA no correspondence on the issue which calls for Parliament on democratisation.
 Those guilty of this are rather who advocate made major reforms before enlargement.
 On the one hand, the decision of the head of the government of Israel to freeze the peace negotiations by violence in the region and focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration with the opposition leader, Mr.
 We have learned a great deal of satisfaction with the victory of the Yugoslav people and Kostunica's election as President.
 I advise Mr Barón Crespo to ask your colleagues Italians to explain why they are in government in Italy with a declaradamente Communist Party and why are preparing to participate in political elections with another declaradamente Communist party, the party of Rifondazione Comunista.
 On the contrary, this is an area in which we must make progress in the application of the codecision procedure.
 The Commission, which has the possibility of adopting decisions by simple majority is in a more favourable position to give this momentum in the future.
 The Union does not need visionaries who now have the telescope set in the year 2030, but has need of leaders who are capable of understanding the problems that will bring the completion of enlargement in a period of 3 to 8 years, as well as providing answers to them.
 Therefore, it is an open work which has not fallen from above, and it has not been imposed.
 The debate is closed.
 Without this fundamental reference, in the best of cases we fail to understand, and at worst we slaughtered each other.
 Democracy has improved in Europe, but, for its part, the European democracy is sick.
 Today, 24 October 2000, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament says something very simple, and says so high: the European Constitution? yes, you can achieve that, yes, we want.
 That is to say the same it expresses the view that insularity itself is a criterion enough.
 I will go to the essential, concentrating on the salient points of the report by President Gil-Robles, of which I will simply say that I think this is excellent.
 Firstly, the simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
 I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
 According to the information - I am going to be technical, forgive me - that it has been communicated to the Presidency, I think that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version, only makes reference, for the implementation of the cohesion policy, the least favoured islands, and not to the islands in general.
 Mr Duhamel, no doubt you will agree with me when I say that if there is no success in Nice, there will be no room, at least, there will be no credibility, to reflect on the future of European integration, at least in the present framework.
 The European Constitution will also have to establish clearly the division of tasks between the Member States and the European Union and incorporate the dynamic of European integration in those areas, such as foreign and security policy, in which there is a need for joint action.
 They could also be necessary to overcome persistent blockages.
 It is necessary to clarify the distribution of competences and the principle of subsidiarity.
 As is known, in the different Member States and between the various social forces there are very different opinions on the subject.
 Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot endorse it.
 In fact, in the home strengthened European peoples will be invited to the Bureau, monetary, possibly military prosecutor, and then the other peoples, who will be at hand.
 It is clear that the second version is wrong because, firstly, in one way or another the structural funds cover economically disadvantaged regions and, secondly, because if this interpretation is correct, we would be talking about the adoption of the declaration nº30.
 Mr President, I would like to focus my small sixty seconds in the report Olivier Duhamel, which is a good report, because dares to say things clearly, and the fine words of our rapporteur has convinced us definitively from this earlier on.
 In my opinion, the unity of Europe can only be political.
 We believe that the new Constitution should be about to enter into force before the next European elections.
 Consequently, the epithet 'least developed' applies both to the island regions and the rest of the regions and, according to the proposal by Mr Barnier, what we have here is a modification of the Italian text of the Treaty, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
 The debate is closed.
 As my colleague said that I was going to vote against this amendment lapses.
 Mr President, what is being called for here is a formula for chaos.
 I welcome the adoption by Parliament of the Trakatellis report, because it has very high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives.
 If the European parliamentary immunity is autonomous, the French authorities should have required of the waiver of Mr Le Pen.
 I am particularly disappointed by the vote of the European Parliament on the report on the proliferation of vineyards.
 For some, alcohol is as tobacco and drugs, a product which damages much to those who consume and people around them; others, on the contrary, above all as a source of employment and something which can be very lucrative.
 The rapporteur broadly welcomes the proposals of the Commission's White Paper on this matter, but it is worried about the possible consequences of the reform, designed mainly to decentralise the application of the competition rules.
 . (FR) Although, in the debate yesterday evening, I congratulated Mr Jonathan Evans on his work, I had to straightaway to express my deep disagreement with the excessively liberal approach, even ultraliberal, of his report.
 The Agency for industrial development of Ireland has been redesigning guidance to achieve half of the new jobs resulting from projects in new areas in Objective 1 region in the next three years.
 State interventions, funding and other economic or tax incentives, on occasions, come to balance something this situation before the alarido that cause the consequences of this policy.
 (The sitting was suspended at 14.06 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
 The situation in October 2000, in the run-up to take a decision on the figures for the 2001 budget, is the following.
 However, the Council had no qualms about reducing agricultural expenditure in 555 billion in total.
 Moreover, we also feel, as is logical, which must not be simply create 400 additional posts, in addition to the existing ones.
 I can only recommend to the Council to follow our example.
 The administration of this House must be, therefore, at the service of the Members and not the reverse.
 The Court of Auditors is the least concerns causes us at the moment.
 Finally, it is also up to us to examine the Ombudsman's budget.
 On the contrary, we believe that we should strengthen research, especially with regard to the accession of the candidate countries.
 We also propose that we continue to report regularly to Parliament.
 And when a legislative conciliation on social affairs, culture and the environment - the Commissioner is going to admit that I am - we met the Commissioner for budgets, the Finance Ministers and the members of the Committee on Budgets to read together, making a nonsense.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support.
 Incidentally, in giving the room for manoeuvre, particularly with regard to the limits of heading 3 and of heading 4, the Council wishes to give Parliament, last competent body in relation to these non-compulsory expenditure, the opportunity to express its priorities, without calling into question the Council. Therefore simply insist on the salient points in the Council's draft budget.
 These are two matters recurrent often in the discussions between Parliament and the Council, and that could give pattern, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.
 The situation is similar in regard to structural policy.
 The outcome of the conciliation procedure this summer was also satisfactory, as has already been pointed out by Mr Colom I Naval, specifically in the sense that in the future will be extended the provision of information to Parliament in connection with the legal bases with repercussions on expenditure.
 Let me remind you that in the financial perspective which was adopted last year, only 1,850 million are envisaged for the Balkans for the period until 2006.
 I would ask you once again to examine this proposal - the Commission left on the table without trial conceived and also that the wording as a possibility.
 This material was, of course, useful for the preparation of the budget for 2001 and for the granting of discharge for the 1999 financial year.
 Despite the fact that, as a Member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this Commission and despite the great respect to the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I cannot fail to stress two amendments that our committee has tabled before the plenary and that remain important although they have reduced the figures.
 With these measures we propose to ensure that judicial control back to operate fully, restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and consolidate its nature as a Community of law.
 The removal of this initiative by the Commission, without replacing it with any other, was clearly contrary to the political will of the Lisbon Summit and the priorities of this House.
 This was a decision astounding and many of us had the feeling that this very important programme had become simply a ball in a football match between the Committee on Budgets and the Commission.
 The third issue is the European agricultural policy as it now appears in the budget proposal.
 If employment is the political priority of the Union, fisheries, as an economic sector, cannot stand on the sidelines.
 I am particularly pleased that he has been able to guarantee the funding of the programmes, juventd Socrates and Culture 2000, was coming at the end of last year.
 For example, our aid to the Mediterranean countries with a delay affecting the budgets for many years.
 Mr President, in the debates of previous years I spoke on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, to which Mrs Iivari has represented this evening.
 But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we must not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends only 1% of GDP and the administration of a large part is carried out by the Member States.
 Let me turn to the global strategy.
 This brings me to the strategy of our group, because what is fundamental to our view is the wish of funds having an adequate return for European citizens.
 On the contrary, we must work for a Parliament which make campaign in favour of transparency, efficiency and effective democratic control of the European institutions.
 When that happens, we must consider how we can resolve this problem.
 We want to promote the processes of democratisation, and we want to maintain a balanced relationship between the traditional fields of foreign policy that we must now address.
 The major problems in the preliminary draft budgets are connected with external actions.
 Of course, it is necessary to have a rigorous management; we support it and we should not try to apply it.
 It is an extremely exceptional initiative, especially at first reading, and this is a thankless initiative, because we cannot, in the current context, to obtain a majority of votes in favour.
 Having said that, the importance of funding for Kosovo still raises some problems.
 The budgetary policy must ensure that the citizen confidence in European policy.
 All the measures aimed at strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises also therefore deserve our support.
 The level of budget implementation.
 Preserving this strategic line in the approach to the budgets for this year and next, the European Parliament plays its full part in the budgetary process.
 With the transfer of 175 million euros, we calculated, approximately EUR 25 million more than we expected.
 As far as MEDA is concerned, the Council said that the commitments were not a problem, in view of the eight years of delays in payments.
 I think that Mr Duff was present this morning when we mention the European Council in Biarritz.
 My reply will be very simple.
 Ramiro Zapata has been the last of the 25 human rights defenders murdered, and recently the Colombian press has denounced 'plan 100 "of the paramilitary groups to kill one hundred human rights defenders.
 Today, I am a little more satisfied that in July with the attitude of the Council, because, as many times in crisis situations, the European Union always seems to be the final authority in the international arena and to make its voice heard.
 The question, Mr President, and I will end here, is whether there is a form of pressure that the proposal by the President in his information and whether the aid that we are going to give will be completely different from that of the United States, that is to say, not addressed to the fumigation of crops, but to the substitute crops and also to the social aspects and not to the military.
 The questions that I and other Members have expressed relate specifically to the situation in Colombia.
 As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
 Subject: tax on financial transactions demands in favour of a taxation of speculative capital has been gaining ground in recent months, with the proliferation of Attac association councils (pour unites them taxation South transactions financières et pour l ’ aide aux citoyens) in France and in Europe, and the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and in the Senate and the same country.
 Furthermore, I would like to answer the question of its influence on the volatility of the currency markets and, especially, the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand on profiteers who expect devaluations of the order of 20 to 50%.
 Furthermore, called for in paragraph 6, the establishment of an international organisation of arbitration, to cancel the debt of the countries of the South.
 It is, moreover, what happened in the case of the euro in the scale of a year, either for regret or willing.
 I would add, Danielle Auroi said a moment ago in connection with the countries of the South, which some estimates made by specialists, interesting figures: for example, a full range from 50 to 250 billion dollars, which could be recovered from a Tobin-type tax. The UNDP, for its part, estimated at EUR 40 billion dollars per year, an amount that could be enough to give life minimum conditions to hundreds of millions of people are all in the countries of the third world.
 The disease was detected in recent months, for example, in different places of France.
 Here as a representative of the French Presidency, wonder: how should be settled these massacres of beef from the funds from the EU budget, or you will pay for the national budgets, and considers that you indicated that it would be paid from the EU budget?
 I ask you indulgence to hear the response, please.
 Therefore, the action of the two governments concerned is limited by this international law.
 I think it is a mystery which the Commission can already say in February and the Council in July how much is needed.
 By acting in this way in the name of subsidiarity, in reality, the European Union abdica one of their tasks as has happened in recent weeks in the north of Italy as in Spain.
 As a Member of the European Parliament interested in that majority, how can endorse the expenditure of 500 million UK taxpayers - our current annual contribution, if not with a wide public approval?
 With a flexible attitude on the part of the Council, an agreement can be reached at second reading to close the budget.
 If someone is not yet convinced, simply examine the evidence.
 Mr Joan Colom I Naval, the Vice-President responsible for buildings, has already introduced such a strategy.
 The political messages in this year's budget are - as has already been said by Commissioner Schreyer many. The restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of structural policy, the monitoring of the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
 NATO's war has done so much damage and has caused much misery.
 Despite what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints without undermining the agricultural budget needed for a sustainable rural sector in the current Member States.
 And I say this clearly and unambiguously koštunica: it must be given a chance, and I hope that in the coming weeks and months mounts an amnesty, but I do want at political level and budgetary policies are put conditions to the execution of these two new budgetary lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
 The Yugoslav elections have demonstrated two things: finally, people hastiado the dictator Milosevic and at the same time trusts Professor koštunica.
 Furthermore, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners will soon be in freedom.
 Not to do so, caímos inevitably "in the financial engineering," in the redistribution and cuts either in general expenses either in the social and environmental costs either in cooperation, but the fact is that, despite this, the appropriations for the Balkans will remain inadequate.
 In this context, we need efforts to resolve the major social problems such as unemployment, for example.
 There is an issue which is, of course, very important: we have begun focussing category four, but has still not entirely clear whether we have been able to give you a solution, also because the Council refuses to bring in clear ideas.
 In all budget work are important priorities.
 This is not very serious in the horizon next to the expiry of the Treaty, but it would be worrying if the legal framework postceca retain the possibility of extending such practices.
 And that brings me to my third comment, the challenge ahead of us.
 The new financial agreement does not say anything about this. I have noticed that the European citizens are increasingly politicians.
 I pay tribute to them for that.
 The availability of dialogue between all the institutions involved has led to an exemplary collaboration which will enable us, I sincerely hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
 Those who represent European values in a country sceptical of the EU are now a new argument in favour of the Union, that is, better protection of personal integrity, something that is important for citizens in modern society.
 In my own country will be reformed the law of personal data, depriving the parliamentarians of power on the decisions of the Commission.
 Many other points also pose problems and deserve the trial of practice to be insured.
 The Commission first I would like to remind you of the commitment that we have all taken with the citizens to ensure the protection of personal data processed by the institutions.
 With this statement, the Commission accepts that the scope of the regulation will be limited to the activities of the first pillar.
 With a view to honour the political agreement concluded with the Council and with the rapporteur in order to allow the approval at first reading, the Commission rejects any other amendment which does not belong to the Paciotti report adopted by the parliamentary Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, except for Amendment No 69, which corrects Amendment No 41.
 Therefore, it is urgent that the staff of the interservice group being strengthened rapidly in the heart of the Secretary-General of the Commission, so that all the proposed measures of a general scope can be accompanied, during its examination by the College, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 299, for a detailed impact sheet.
 From the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the internal market, what interests me to highlight is that, in fact, can only be dealt with as what is equal.
 Given the importance of fisheries for the outermost regions, I am saddened by this.
 Until now, since under the presidency of Mr Delors was set up an interservice group for the outermost regions, we have travelled a long and fruitful path and who has chaired this Group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans outermost regions.
 Indeed, even before the Treaty of Rome referred to the French overseas departments, it was not until 1989 and the programmes of specific actions linked to remoteness and insularity, the famous POSEI programmes, so that the European Union finally admit that the permanence and combination of the structural problems of the outermost regions justified specific treatment with regard to the other regions of the Community.
 I have no doubt that the proposals that the Commission presents the Council will bear the stamp of these qualities.
 This issue is becoming increasingly important as we move towards the enlargement of the EU eastwards.
 And it should be noted that this right to the difference is no more than a product of the principle of equality, which also needs to be treated differently what is different.
 It is a document that my staff and I consider rich in ideas and that does not shirk any of the issues of concern to the outermost regions of the Community.
 Your report, Mrs Sudre, rightly stresses the need to act in time. A few moments ago.
 With regard to the relaunch of the diversification of the economy, we have made progress in several key areas.
 It is important now that we are present in the framework of the DOCUPs a large number of projects, but, in parallel with this action on the ground, we have to think hard about the specific needs, access, each of these outermost regions to this information society.
 Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
 Of course I will inform the President of your speech.
 I am concerned about the possibility of a general failure of many voting machines, which would threaten the decisions adopted by the House.
 Both the Food Authority as the legislative proposals that we propose, designed to guarantee food safety, can count on the support of this Parliament, Mr Commissioner.
 Its main task is to provide scientific advice, since the debate on food safety must also be credible.
 Mr President, in conclusion I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive input and her willingness to take into account the opinion of other committees.
 When we are confronted with a possible risk is important to apply the precautionary principle.
 On the question still controversial how far should we go in regard to enable it to examine the nutrition, and even to submit recommendations and be consulted by those whose main task is to risk management, we have also said that in the field of security, the issues should at least be subject to the opinions and advice of this Food Authority.
 A central idea is to ensure the survival of the rich heritage of traditions.
 It is not the laws or regulations which form the basis for this respectability, but the integrity, high academic quality, independence, the sense of responsibility, transparency and comprehensibility.
 Certainly, it is essential to proceed on the basis of sound scientific knowledge, to evaluate the risks associated with the food chain, from farm to table.
 Mr President, it is clear that there is a considerable enthusiasm for the creation of a European food safety agency, as our rapporteur really prefers.
 Given that the programme of the who continues to have the funds and support needed, it appears that there is absolutely no need for another agency, especially one with a limited scope so as the 15 Member States of the European Union.
 Food safety is the basic condition for the consumer because consumers who want to eat healthily and that we need to address us.
 If we do not get a new framework directive many aspects relating to food safety will only be a dead letter.
 Consequently, we need to change the EU Treaty in such a way that will give the Commission the power to impose sanctions in the area of food, in the same way that is currently being done in the field of competition.
 I support all those who support the strategy "food for all" and working in the political field, administrative or any other.
 I do not share these words, because we know that man is not only body.
 This should represent the real heart of coordination of the network of national agencies, which in turn, must implement and coordinate a network of centres of excellence for food safety at regional level.
 I believe, therefore, that his Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 17 are perfectly compatible.
 The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
 Your report contains many proposals for modification, but is limited to emphasise certain things.
 It is very clearly stated in the report, and I welcome that.
 However, the creation of the European Food Safety Authority is very positive.
 It is to be hoped that fulfil all these criteria for the good of the citizens of the Union as a whole.
 I think that it is essential to establish certain temporary margins in which must be kept informed the European Commission in cases of justified concern.
 The EU must have the highest standards of food safety for its citizens.
 The Commission now proposes the creation of a European food authority.
 I fear that Europe again runs the risk of blown-up afford a range of officials to be unable to act.
 As we create new levels of bureaucracy and spend more money, it is increasingly less what we get in return.
 To prevent similar or work in parallel in various institutions.
 However, we must avoid a situation in which, under the pretext of the discussion on the White Paper, increases in public opinion the fear of a bureaucratic Europe, which has an impact on the quality of products, without penalizing fraud effectively that threaten the health of consumers.
 As you know, the Commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety.
 The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the principles and objectives of global food law, which will provide the framework for future health protection measures in the area of foodstuffs.
 Thank you, Commissioner.
 Turning now to our report, I welcome the Commission proposal and I must say that the parliamentary committees on foreign affairs and on development have worked hard to improve it further, if possible, particularly in some points.
 As has been said very explicit and clear Mrs Bonino, with the Commission's proposal for a regulation has been given a new step forward.
 The Commission's proposal for a regulation seems to us to be too vague.
 It is necessary that the allocation for the removal of mines is organised in a reasonable way to promote research and work for work of detection and disposal, to instruments that can be used in a simple way on the ground to help in developing countries.
 Over the last eight years, we have contributed with more than EUR 200 million from the Community budget to the fight against landmines.
 But we must not penalise those who have a bad government.
 Firstly, as I have already mentioned, I believe that it would be a mistake, well intentioned, but counterproductive, impose accession to the Ottawa Convention as a prerequisite for Community assistance to mine action.
 I cannot accept Amendment No 19.
 Secondly, the international community must improve coordination of their efforts at global level, and in particular within the countries concerned.
 Mr President, the Socialist Group shares the pride that has just been expressed by Mr Van Orden on the role played by the European Union.
 Think of bombs Soviet plaything in Afghanistan.
 Thank you for a good report.
 Mr President, the Cambodians call mines eternal sentinels.
 With regard to the uniformed people have justified mistrust that have been built up over many years of war.
 Mr President, I am pleased that has finally European legislation, in the form of a regulation on anti-personnel mines and the fact that today we have a good report from Mrs Bonino on it.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very sad.
 It is no coincidence that mines are, primarily, in crisis areas, that is to say, in areas in which could have taken another type of initiatives in order to overcome these crises.
 Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in an area is a sign of the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
 It is tragic that it is the civilian population who suffer because of the ineptitude of their leaders.
 Let me, ladies and gentlemen, welcome them on behalf of our institution, with which your country maintains special relationships within the framework of our common project of building an area of prosperity, security and peace around the Mediterranean basin.
 They are all mines stockpiled.
 Mr President, as I agree with almost everything that has been said before my colleagues, I will not repeat. I waive my speaking time.
 You have the concept of open cooperation is falling into the institutional framework dominated by Commission officials.
 We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the people they affect.
 But as essential amendments from the EPP Group have just seen a considerable majority, I voted in favour of the report.
 Mr President, I abstained in the vote on the resolution on the results of the informal European Council in Biarritz for two reasons: first, because I have had the opportunity to vote nominally separately, paragraphs 2 and 5, which has enabled me to express my opposition to both head-on.
 In other words, around the table of the common European home, some would eat the Charter and others the menu minimum.
 And the democratic control must not renege. However, it is not that we wanted to the list of these rights and its inclusion in the Treaties, was the problem priority of the European Union.
 There has been talk of referendums and the amendments tabled to this report relating to these referendums.
 In the elections to the European Parliament in 1999 was only 40% of the electorate, without regard to the countries in which there is a mandatory vote or those that were made simultaneously national elections.
 In order to achieve the desirable objective of a European Constitution, it is undesirable to impose rigid models and methodologies, which would prevent fatally achieving the desired objective.
 A real social constitution should levelling upwards the best of the achievements of the world of work, women, immigrants and the citizens.
 Even without denying a laudable intention, clarification of strengthening and deepening of the European Union, as well as a simplification of the texts that are necessary to the proximity of its operation in relation to the citizens, I voted in favour.
 The distribution of powers and responsibilities
 I think it is essential that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU leads to the signing of the Convention on Human Rights by the European Council.
 Gil-Robles I support, as it proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas some Member States of the European Union agree a joint action.
 Allow decisions on increasing number of important issues to be adopted by qualified majority contravenes the fundamental democratic rules.
 Today is to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will ultimately lose the departure, in this case too.
 This report is intended to clarify the position taken in this sense of our Parliament (resolution of 13 April 2000).
 . (SV) In general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is favourable.
 The British Labour Members of the PSE Group we welcome the adoption of its contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on enhanced cooperation, although not supports all the details.
 These islands must be active part of the European Union that I hope that the become a paradise for tourists and in a paradise for its inhabitants.
 In the Middle Ages, these regions and their inhabitants do not belong to Europe. Even now are regarded as genuinely European.
 In fact, the specific features of these regions, in general, due to the insularity and the remoteness of the European continent, but also its chronic dependence on a single production or a few, require appropriate specific measures to overcome those limitations.
 Mr President, I apologise for entertain the Presidency and the interpreters listening to my last explanation of vote and, in particular, I wish to express my solidarity with the translators our explanations of vote, as far as I am concerned.
 It is clear that the aim of the Agency is to channel the powers of national defence, or paralizarlos, to put them at the service of the objectives of the Commission.
 That does not mean that the Commission and Parliament denominen this agency 'authority' European designation, which runs totally counter to the philosophy on which it is based.
 That is not what we are proposing the Bowis report, which gives the impression that food safety is considered primarily as a new pretext for feeding the well-known process of strengthening the powers of the Commission, to the detriment of national bodies and of the bodies which protect the safety of citizens.
 For this reason, I believe that this declaration will enable me to condemn these indescribable acts on behalf of our European Parliament, which has always championed the respect for religious freedom and tolerance between all their communities.
 Madam President, I understand the objections made by the rapporteur, but on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is not just vote on issues of money, but that we will be voting on in a particular direction.
 I should like to ask your support to make the necessary adjustments in line a-206, relating to the acquisition of property, depending on what amendments are adopted, in order not to traspasemos our own limit of 20% of total administrative expenditure.
 Before the vote on the proposal to amend 929
 Section VI - Economic and Social Committee
 Report (A5-0276 / 2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing additional technical measures for rebuilding the stocks of cod in the Irish Sea (ICES Division VIIa) (COM (2000) 0190 - C5-0219 / 2000 - 2000 / 0071 (CNS))
 (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 Export subsidies are to dump the world market with food surpluses of the Union, which entails serious disadvantages for the food industry in many developing countries.
 To obtain resources to increase aid to the Balkans, the Member States must make changes in the current budget.
 However, Parliament has managed to introduce important priorities, such as greater concern for the fight against unemployment and poverty, many environmental issues and equal opportunities, etc., we voted against the right-wing attacks against the LIFE programme and the lobby European women.
 - (SV) in relation to the reimbursement of travel expenses of Members of the European Parliament, we maintain our view that compensation should only cover the real expenditure incurred by the journeys made during his term of office.
 I am confident that - and I hope that the Commission will solutions with constructivo- spirit we will be undertaking the years 2002 to 2005 with a transitional provision.
 - (DE) with the aim of, above all, put a muzzle on continuously to the national parliaments, the European Commission, in its furore regulator and liberalisation, has presented a proposal for a regulation is directly applicable, rather than a directive, which has suffered a troubling procedural íter through Parliament and the Council of Ministers to enter into force on 31 December 2000.
 We support in this way the reform efforts of the Commission and we are opposed to continue to favour this sector.
 This has made very much depend on loans.
 Nicholson report (a-0276 / 2000)
 It is important to ensure that aid should not be used for military purposes.
 Our view is that the reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases must be achieved principally with a cost borne by the real pollutants (i.e., the major industries), to the detriment of their profits.
 Moreira da Silva report (A5-0271 / 2000)
 We should spend this money concordando and coordinating the expenditure for research policy throughout the 15 Member States of the European Union.
 It is good that we can learn, for caution, the truth in relation to these substances.
 The voting period is over.
 This will replace the national format that is now being used everywhere.
 The loss of data for the statistics relating to the balance of payments is minimal.
 As imaginarán, those most affected are the small and medium-sized enterprises.
 For years we have been demanding a harmonization of the efforts because, after all, is it possible to establish a rapid system, safe and cheap.
 In my opinion, this report is of capital importance for actually integrate to citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro zone and increase the acceptance of economic and monetary union.
 There must be no obstacles or major differences when there is a free movement of capital with a single currency.
 However, the European Parliament and the Commission attach great importance.
 I support the two-way policy with which the rapporteur wants to induce banks lazy to act.
 Mr Radwan and Mrs Peijs, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, which calls for the adoption of measures for before the end of next year and, preferably, the establishment of these standards before they come into circulation of euro notes and coins.
 The proposal that we tabled Mrs Peijs and I moves in the direction of banks to sit at a table not to make concessions, because we cannot increase more political pressure.
 After all, if the system for the realisation of cross-border payments remains as expensive as it is today, the credibility of the new system of notes and coins will be called into question.
 We believe that this form of the collection of statistical data on the system of payments of the Union is a relic of the past; that in a single integrated area and cease to be justified, and which constitute an obstacle to the smooth operation of the market.
 Listening to the speeches of some of my colleagues in the committees, some of which have been here longer than I, I had the impression that the exercise of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, to which this Parliament is submitting for a fourth time, falls into this category.
 Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance the support that will bring to my report.
 If we reject this political action at European level, must then be given more opportunities to the regions.
 SMEs are the main source of job creation, both in terms of quality and quantity. Play an essential role for social cohesion and for planning.
 The care with the study of proposals and the concertation which has pursued with many interested parties have been a triumph for better define and to optimise the establishment of this programme.
 Thirdly, we must look for European added value.
 It follows that small and medium-sized enterprises can only go well if the unemployment rate is reduced and public authorities at all levels are not debt and have adequate resources for the budgets of investment.
 Businesses need clarity.
 In particular, if an employer individually or a company with 250 employees with a project, cannot be the only means of financing the constitution of the guarantees of 120%, but it must also be possible to obtain funding for which has only a good idea.
 The national States, and even the regional or local authorities are already acting as real financial bombs, which drenan taxpayers ’ money, i.e. sums being held by the majority of the population, including the poorest, and the bombean towards large companies and thus towards their owners and shareholders.
 The forcing-house of small- and medium-sized enterprises includes thousands of fragile attempts that nourish of human potential and ideas to large companies.
 The measures that we have proposed here, which I would like to address the Commissioner is speed up and facilitate access to aid and information to the people who addressed these companies can use them effectively.
 All of them will occupy a special place in the multiannual programme.
 Finally, I welcome the idea of an annual ritual endeavour to carry out an assessment of the implementation of the programme.
 The recent incidents at the expense of the Greek minority in Himara the urgent need to do more to promote measures for democratisation, strengthening the institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
 A considerable number of Albanians abandoning its land by the uncertainty that prevails in your country, for the social difficulties for their social structures and relatives premodernas.
 We need to have preventive measures specially designed to Albania that contribute to the construction or reconstruction of the country, in order to make possible a dignified life in the region.
 This is how things are going from one jurisdiction to the other documents and the European Commission, for example, is refusing to publish the report on, among other things, the Customs Assistance Mission (cam), drawn up by the Albanians.
 Let us see the truth as it is.
 Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the point of view of the broad and extensive evidence that his report.
 It is a matter of the greatest importance, created under the influence of factors historical, social, political and economic.
 We will never know the real number of deaths.
 The common commercial activities involve people in a peaceful manner.
 What, on the contrary, I think it is unacceptable in this report, and I tell you this frankly, it being confused the effect on the cause, that is to say, it being confused the procedure for issuing visas balanced and therefore the possibility to emigrate, with the cause of illegal immigration.
 The major institutional reforms deriving from the Amsterdam Treaty have influenced the management of the issues of political asylum and immigration.
 Thirdly and lastly, the action plan and its methods of implementation must be evaluated by areas.
 But, of course, this order also requires us to us not overstretching on the volume of adoption of Community rules.
 Precisely now has to be stressed the strength of Community action.
 I, therefore, that the changes to the proposals on codification of European legislation in force is carried out by the inclusion of amendments in the directive or regulations in force.
 Understood with ownership, the principle of subsidiarity which points in two directions: decision-making at the lowest possible level, and a recognition that the lowest possible level can, in fact, be a very high level, when there is general goods at stake there will be less than are protected in the same terms everywhere.
 The report is a model of draft clear and concise and I hope that colleagues will take with the seriousness it deserves.
 The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the internal market did not receive the enthusiasm of its Members.
 That is what I meant in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation, and Mr Medina we just test with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even the experts.
 Therefore, to see some aspects of the report I produce little enthusiasm, because I would have liked to have seen a report comunitarizante "more" in terms of the internal market and, above all, on this point, of course, are not wind blowing in the report.
 What is important for the EU institutions is that we have a strong commitment to raise the quality of legislation, particularly with regard to subsidiarity.
 The debate is closed.
 The maintenance of this situation could have a negative impact on the acceptance and in the opinion of the citizens about the euro.
 Mr President, in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs are preparing a thorough the Karamanou report.
 However, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to take advantage of our oral question and this debate to express both sides - both our motion for a resolution - and I do so with great composure some considerations.
 The peoples of the Union that we represent here so demand.
 But, since much has been water under the bridge, the agreement has passed and has not been replaced.
 I can understand the reasons for the Commissioner, but I cannot understand the Director-General.
 We could say that, eleven months after the mooring services, we are still paying the previous agreement and the previous one.
 Mr President, a year ago, we had a similar debate and the fact that he had to spend a year to begin negotiations highlights the difficulty of finding fishing grounds for the massive EU fleets.
 The second agreement, things were very clear.
 But we must also understand that nothing is eternal, even fishery resources!
 For this reason, I am particularly keen to make it clear that, if something has been highlighted in the PPE-DE Group is not only in support, defend and lead to the fisheries agreements, but rather to promote their extension.
 Thirdly, since it was interrupted the fisheries agreement, has continued the exploitation of waters of Western Sahara for Community and non-Community fleets that are not subject to the control of the Commission nor the Member States: it speaks of a fleet which is particularly important in the Netherlands.
 I understand that, since these fishing activities represented a source of income and work for a poor region in relation to the rest of Europe.
 Another aspect which I would like to emphasise is that at the end of the month concludes the temporary aid paid to the fishermen and shipowners to compensate for stopping this year. This is an untenable situation, given that all prefer to work for aid.
 This parliamentary year supporter of Andalusian autonomy is a negotiating and proposing initiatives by the corridors, by the offices, in the Committee on Fisheries and in the hearings with the Commissioner to bear in mind the especialísima character of the Andalusian fishing fleet which fishes in Morocco.
 Spain has developed in a remarkable way the most difficult neighbourhood relationship which has been repeatedly raised in history between Europe and North Africa, between Spain and Morocco.
 As a parliamentarian and Spanish Andalusian, I support the right of thousands of Andalusian and Spanish families to maintain and defend, and also from this Parliament, to defend their jobs, which are in danger for nearly a year.
 We now proceed to the vote.
 A history of almost twelve years since the full of consuelos Chancellery, delaying tactics, hopes, of necessity, of placebos staff also for those affected, tenacious defence of old rights against people who do not want anything other than their rights.
 As you know, the matter is very complex and affects some 700 people working in over twenty-five Italian universities.
 If reform and change the Italian legal system, as has happened for staff university level, we do not think that the Commission can intervene from the moment that all European citizens benefit from equal access to all professional categories.
 The injustice lies in two people doing the same work, working shoulder to shoulder, do, however, with different salaries and under different conditions.
 Worst of all, in my opinion, is to have to inform you that a favourable judgment may not constitute more than a few words reassuring and there will be no real change in their lives.
 I would remind the Commission that I hope to respond to what the Court judgment in the case allué, expressed as follows: "by the present dictates that is contrary to Article 48 (2) of the Treaty of the EEC that legislation from one Member State to limit in any case the duration of contracts of employment of foreign language assistants to one year, with the possibility of renewal, if not in principle applies that limit to other teachers'.
 Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and cannot be exceptions to these principles.
 We still have jobs today, as has been seen in this discussion, too many restrictions, too many obstacles to the internal market, and not only in this case.
 The debate is closed.
 (The President cut the speaker off)
 And I propose a minute of respect.
 Are there any comments?
 I support the proposal tabled by Mr Ceyhun, and I would be very grateful if the Council could clarify whether it has real intentions to present a new proposal on this issue.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group considers it very important that we do not believe this event would receive suitable treatment in the form of a matter of urgency.
 Galeote have just described. I have the impression that you adheres to these reasons, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understood him correctly.
 Madam President, some time ago we discussed in this Parliament for the issue of sanctions on Iraq.
 It is urgent that we hold a debate before introducing the amendment proposed by the British authorities, and that the Commission points out quite clearly what the rules must be observed in this regard.
 (A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the field of the fight against organised crime, laundering of the proceeds of fraud and crime in financial matters (10213 / 2000 - C5-0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).
 The statements must be followed by practical measures to proceed to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime.
 The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot remain in the hands of a single agency specialised, subject to the control of the national governments.
 Furthermore, Article 8 of the draft Convention simply to essential interests the grounds for refusing assistance that could invoke the requested state.
 I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Marinho on the work she has done and I would like to say that, indeed, attempts to combat organised crime must be given support and attention.
 Traced, pursue, condemn the laundering of dirty money terrorists and arms dealers and drugs, of course.
 Our task is to proceed to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime.
 All these considerations are reflected in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will adopt these amendments.
 In my view, the establishment of these initiatives is moving in a way which can ignore the protection provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
 In reality, however, all this is not so easy.
 Finally, Mr President, the PPE Group supports the compromise amendment which we have reached with Mrs Roure on the activities of lawyers.
 The second measure, the second instrument, is harmonisation.
 This is a Portuguese initiative that has already been praised several previous speakers.
 And that was the subject of the Joint Council meeting of justice and home affairs and by the Ecofin Council on 17 October.
 The best way to strengthen the parliamentary control and judicial control of Europol is the full integration of the Europol Convention in the legal framework of the European Union.
 A step in the right direction, which the European Parliament tries to provide for some time, is the creation of a Provisional Judicial Cooperation Unit.
 This is the sense of guarantees, that is to say, to advance this aspect of freedoms.
 The European Parliament is the Community supranational body able to establish this relationship, and with this speech I propose therefore to support this right to support our rapporteur
 Only when the institutional model and the rules which will govern the European area of justice are resolved, it will be possible for the public and for Parliament to comment on each one of the measures proposed by the Council.
 For this reason, Europol is a logical step forward in the process to give the citizens of a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice, by strengthening the fight against organised crime.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt deserves to be congratulated on the excellent report he has presented, in line with the decisions taken at the Tampere Council.
 But given that with Eurojust raises the coordination of the tax and national courts in order to fight against all forms of serious crime - and here I agree with the approach of the rapporteur - the broad concept: it is no longer refers only to purely transnational cooperation crimes, speaks of cooperation for the suppression of criminal activities.
 We will have the opportunity, from 1 January 2001, go in that interim unit, but the Commission wants to hold a debate on what must be the permanent unit of Eurojust.
 Each side sincerely held its position, so I believe, without lapsing into rigid confrontations.
 The problems encountered in expenditure is not excessively concerned the Committee on Fisheries, although paid more attention to other matters.
 It is totally unacceptable that we do not have clear objectives or we can measure the results, something that would not happen in any other institution.
 Second point: in the area of the hierarchy in the Faculty of balance of payments has come here to intersections unacceptable, Commissioner.
 I want to stress that played a positive role to a number of problems.
 It is obvious that this work in a consortium does not create any duality in the joint financial responsibility.
 We therefore really acted to recover these 3.4 million, and we can say that we have succeeded in more than 90%.
 Are there any comments?
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following nine months of work and long wrangling in the search for a consensus, we now have on the table a draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
 I hope that, although today it is limited to give its assent to this letter, this House will make it indubitablemente clear in the coming weeks calling on the Council to the obligation of the Charter and that this also includes the possibility of recourse to the European Court of Justice.
 This position joins, as you know, adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Biarritz, in which they themselves adopted unanimously and without reservations, the Charter and, therefore, I can only invite you, on behalf of the Council, to follow this position, but by making them some considerations.
 But it is above all by the strength of its content, which is why the Charter, I am sure, will take time.
 For its part, the European Trade Union Confederation has been able to condemn what she considers gaps, such as the lack of any reference to the right to a minimum wage, for example.
 However, various personalities, and especially the members of the European Parliament, have proposed that we should include an explicit reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Article 6 of the EU Treaty, which refers to the Convention on Human Rights.
 Our Group unanimously supports the Charter with the sole exception of the British delegation.
 The European People's Party calls in its entirety and unanimously by the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated as soon as possible to the Treaties, so that also has the force of law directly to the inhabitants of the European Union.
 They have shown that it is possible to treat the European Affairs of a new and exemplary, much better than the Intergovernmental Conference, given its work democratic and open, with the greatest transparency and that makes the involvement of citizens.
 The right to health, social security, the right to housing, minimum wage are non-existent or only the order of solidarity.
 Fourthly, the Charter - and this seems to me to be particularly important, part of the principle of the indivisibility of human rights of citizenship and political nature and the fundamental rights of social order.
 Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Charter is simply the umpteenth demonstration of the capacity of the Union and of our Member States to increase the ending instead with lame texts, declarations of intent.
 The representative of the Commission in the Convention of Torino legal significance attaches to the document.
 After the hour of the market, when the Europe of rights has perhaps finally come. The concept of citizenship in the European Union is a relatively new concept.
 The charter drafted, indeed, as a text which may have a binding value.
 I also note with great pride that a representative of my parliamentary group in my country, Gunnar jansson, played a central role in the formulation of this Charter.
 As I said last night - and I shall say so today - throughout the Union there are many deficiencies in this regard and sometimes, with our impatience to develop judicial and police cooperation, overlook the importance of ensuring that the innocent victims, are not passive collateral damage of a war against crime.
 Madam President, the draft resolution of the European Parliament on the Charter of Fundamental Rights is based on the same ambiguity that the work of the House.
 The Italian Constitution provides, for example, the limit of good conduct; the Convention provides for the limit of the rights of others, of public order.
 Mr President, in today's vote on 12 we will conclude a process that began in 1984, when this Parliament approved the draft Treaty of the European Union, where it was the request of a bill of rights, a process which we continue in 1989 with the resolution of de Gucht.
 The Charter will have effects. It is going to have to be in the Treaty.
 We must welcome and not with fear seems to think, as Mr bondi.
 It seems that the century that ends, with all their struggles for the emancipation of disadvantaged social classes, has spent uselessly and not taught us nothing.
 The Charter fills a gap in Community law and strengthens the protection of individuals with regard to the atrocities of the European police force, the authorities combating fraud and the authorities that are responsible for competition.
 I do not understand the difference of opinion which underlies it because the Charter does not contain anything that would like to see included.
 Mr President, I will continue where it was Mr Gahrton.
 The third point I want to make relates to the rights of citizens of third countries.
 The Council of Europe, in addition to the Court of Human Rights, with a great deal of experience in such forms of control, which we can use.
 In view of the text of the Charter we are going to approve today, which I hope it by a large majority -, it is obvious that with our Charter we shall achieve more extensive protection and also more up-to-date fundamental rights that would have meant that the accession to the European Convention for the protection of human rights.
 That is why we need to go further.
 I think it is important to bear this in mind if we are to achieve the necessary support from the citizens of Europe in the Charter.
 After its adoption by this Parliament, the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be my guide analysis in this report and as far as my personal means and intellectuals and the media in regard to colleagues that I will allow me, I will make an analysis right by law, country by country of respect for the Charter in the fifteen countries of the Union.
 . (FR) Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission would like, firstly, to adhere to the comments made by Mr Moscovici, and highlight the essential contribution that the members of the European Parliament have contributed to the debate, to the Convention, in particular the role that Mr Méndez de Vigo has played in the Praesidium of the Convention for the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
 I shall refer to some of the most salient points of this debate: firstly, Mr.
 The Convention has opted for including fundamental rights inspired by the various instruments of the Council of Europe, in the Treaties, in the constitutions of the Member States.
 The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
 In the current state of affairs, also corresponds to our Parliament to tell the Turkish people that there are currently three conditions for its accession.
 As a result, the European Investment Bank is one of the last refuge ports of banking activities in the world. This does not studding waves of social debate.
 This is why I have taken good note of the suggestions made by Mr Morillon on the preconditions for the accession of Turkey and deserve the greatest interest.
 I am pleased to announce that the Turkish Government has accepted this association between both as a basis for our future cooperation, so that we can hope that we will achieve precisely the intended aim, which is to support with our policy to the forces of reform in Turkey, give new impetus to the reform process and to make progress with a view to the desired accession to the European Union.
 What is most important to me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, among the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for Turkey ’ s accession to the EU, a debate which gives support to the forces of reform of the country and promote their development.
 This text is awaiting its opinion.
 What we want is a necessary boost to a future accession.
 However, I would urge Turkey - I do not know what the result of the vote - also to take this issue seriously.
 The European Parliament will play its role in the promotion of relations with political parties, NGOs and the press, in addition to develop their sensitive and sometimes tirante relationship with the Grand National Assembly.
 Mr Morillon, your report is, in my view, absolutely realistic and responsible.
 During his visit to Turkey in March at least mentioned by name the problem of the Kurdish population, as it has done today.
 Considering that Europeans will lead to the Turks, and I quote, "a radical change in their habits and mentality" at the same time it reveals a naïve and a great adequacy.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today fills me with concern.
 Recommendation (A5-0325 / 2000) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the adoption of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (4487 / 1 / 00 - C5-0570 / 2000 - 2000 / 2233 (AVC))
 In any case, in the forthcoming occasions on which we shall be debating the computer power, we have to realise that there is a need for a wider control and, therefore, more garantizador the person.
 Duff / Voggenhuber recommendation (A5-0325 / 2000)
 Furthermore, we are:
 The rights laid down in the Charter are already part of the national constitutions and are defended by national parliaments, close to the people and their cultures.
 For example, Article 19-1, which mentions that: "collective expulsions are prohibited," does not specify that the ban can be suspended in the event of war or serious disturbances of public order.
 We are going to give a brief explanation of these three objections in order.
 The right of a government to leave aside arbitrarily their constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny.
 But, I repeat today, we have every reason to be proud of the conditions under which we have completed this important stage for Europe.
 A society which is not only rights and duties, becomes a society selfish.
 It is our fight priority for the assertion of fundamental rights to be incorporated in political elections.
 Despite the fact that the Convention method is interesting and fruitful to establish a basic text, seeking a broad compromise, nothing justifies deprive Parliament, which embodies the representation of the European peoples, of the possibility of amending, enrich the text.
 This Charter must be improved, and our Parliament should propose a strategy to its updating and enhancement.
 Therefore, the Charter should not decide and proclaim at the Nice Council, but in this summit should be encouraged a European debate on the same.
 Fortunately, the prevailing tendency of national governments seem to indicate the path of common sense, that is to say, the acceptance of the Charter with a purely political and non-binding.
 Created as "Parliament" at the Cologne Summit, it autoproclamó 'convention', a name that unfortunately 1793 recalls to terrorist and implications of the French Revolution fulfilled by other Convention.
 In return, the method used, the exclusions and proclaimed the ambiguity surrounding the very nature of this text cast a rather harsh light on the new totalitarian efervescencias operating at the heart of the European integration process.
 Fortunately, the European Parliament has not yet in this field more than a consultative role, pending a full implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but is the way to exercise it in the wrong direction, slowing down the right decisions.
 On the other hand, there are discrepancies in terms of procedure.
 A century ago was as well and, after making regressing, something is now back with force.
 The last thing we want is that the single market will enable criminals into the single market by the back door and unseen.
 And we also support the future creation of a Convention which facilitates the fight against organised crime and money-laundering as well as the various measures proposals for achieving those aims.
 In fact, we are creating a provisional unit, composed of one representative of judges or the police officers who have a judge activity in our fifteen Member States.
 Mr President, in my capacity as a Member of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee, have been intense attention to the draft accession of Turkey.
 Nor is it acceptable to Turkey's role in Cyprus.
 However, we support the rapporteur's criticism that there needs to be an evaluation on the granting of loans from the EIB and that there are shortcomings in the areas of transparency and democratic control of the Bank 's activities.
 Turkey, with all its diversity has always been and continues to be an integral part of the European reality.
 Turkey ’ s accession to the European Union has become more than ever in an issue on the agenda.
 Mr Morillon says that Turkey must take care not to see the European Union as an exclusive club "Christian" that wants to exclude it.
 Turkey will be a fully democratic country when learn to live with its past, like the democratic Germany learned to live with yours and we also ask it.
 With regard to the authorities in Ankara have understood that the status quo is unacceptable for Europe and for the rest of the world, will be able to make substantial progress: the island can be reunited and tomorrow there will be an overall regulation fair, lasting and in accordance with international law.
 In truth, why not included in the report of the European Commission?
 This is the balanced framework in which we will have to continue with our action to promote the rapprochement between the Union and Turkey.
 If we look at the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU - please listen carefully what I say: if we address the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU the project that we are discussing today will not rip; it is as simple as that.
 Moreover, it is also the reason for our insistence that take stock of the first five years of implementation of the Barcelona process, so that in Marseilles, precisely, are in a position to establish the necessary guidelines.
 However, we have managed to keep the dialogue, and sometimes on sensitive issues: stability, terrorism, migration, human rights, for example.
 In addition, the Council has made an effort, in particular since 1995, by providing the Mediterranean most important means, to the extent of the challenges of the partnership.
 This is, in fact, a subject of vital importance, and I say this also in my capacity as faster.
 Mr President, as you know, in English it says that when the star does not appear in a role, it is like a representation of Hamlet without first death knell.
 We want to see a pooling of policies on issues relating to the single market and agree to introduce accumulation of origin together with regional free-trade agreements so that all the partners keep free trade relations between themselves and adopting the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
 We note with satisfaction that the Commission is prepared to give fresh impetus to the Barcelona process.
 I have highlighted these aspects because they are seeking the key to relaunch the process, and to this we must add the extension of the political agenda of Barcelona.
 Therefore, our priority must be to secure the peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we must make every effort for the sake of this cooperation and for the commitment of funds are implemented effectively, in terms of the digamos- selfish - generosity of the European Union.
 These are important issues specific and I would like to raise, and I am grateful to Mr Brok which has authorised this debate just before that the Presidency and the Commission to discuss these issues.
 The world is moving towards a globalisation unstoppable and in this context it must be organised in major blocks that act as protagonists in the wider context of global competition.
 It is disappointing that the Mediterranean countries have requested just barely a quarter of the EUR 4700 million allocated for the MEDA I programme, which expired in 1999.
 This is a positive proposal for the new impetus which the Commission has made, and we fully agree with the two priorities which has marked out by Mr Patten in his speeches and reiterated here this evening.
 It is a wake-up call for the European Union to play a more active role in the Mediterranean area that historically and culturally and engrandeció enriched our European continent.
 However, much more serious, at the same time that in this Chamber calmly exchanging views sometimes diverging, are still killing more Palestinians.
 Aid for reconstruction
 If, however, we do not in December the means for implementing this regulation, we have had a debate today devoid of content.
 It is complicated procedures, but must never want to close our eyes, and I hope that the Member States do not either, given the role played in this.
 The media in that region have been responsible for many times the tragedy which has lived and necessary resources and completely free to act in accordance with the rules that exist in our democracies.
 Similarly, I am lucky because I believe that Parliament has succeeded in getting to return to a situation which was not originally as good as has remained constant pressure.
 I repeat: it is absolutely essential to avoid unnecessary costs in meetings unnecessary.
 However, we must not focus solely on Kosovo.
 It is also unfortunate that a series of programmes have been put in the so-called performance reserve, "opførselsreserven."
 In Feira, recognised the quality of potential candidates for accession to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process.
 I reiterate the main priorities allocated for the CARDS programme: the institutional reinforcement in the sense of democracy and the rule of law, economic development and reconstruction; regional cooperation.
 The European Union was right to respond positively to the access of the President kostuniça to power.
 On 6 November was carried out an initial examination.
 What initiatives will the Council take, as requested by the European Parliament in its resolution of 16 March 2000, to play a more active role in order to ensure the total and absolute implementation of the UN peace plan?
 How can we achieve this without giving new impetus to the resolution of this conflict? the close links between the European Union and Morocco, and more particularly between France and Morocco.
 I can simply point out that France and Germany - I am no longer speaking as President of the Council mentioned these matters in the course of a bilateral Summit in vittel, last week, and it was decided to set up a working group in order to remedy the problem.
 At the same time, the Union continues to make a significant material assistance to these two countries, through the intermediary of its various programmes, especially TACIS.
 The honourable Member's question, then, to offer the Presidency the opportunity to dispel certain misunderstandings.
 I will add one further point: it is particularly in these two texts, the strengthening of the penal framework to fight against organised networks of smugglers.
 In the report that the Council of Ministers Turco adopted on 21 September as reform programme, on the part of the legislative amendments: several projects included in the Civil Code measures to strengthen effective equality of men and women in the areas socioeducativos; better combat violence; better family condemn these acts of violence through the creation of specialist judges in the field of the family and, finally, to prohibit the possibility of a reduced penalties for the crime of honour.
 The Presidency therefore need not give an answer on this point.
 Next week, there will be a meeting of the European Conference, at the invitation of mine, in France, namely with the candidate countries. I will announce that Mrs.
 Do you think that the model that has been followed in the case of Austria, namely the adoption of bilateral decisions majority could be used in the future as an instrument for taking decisions on the fringes of the European institutions and to create a new institution or a new group, in order to get round the unanimity rule in the Council?
 Cem. The terms of this reply were communicated to all the Member States.
 President-in-Office of the Council, Mr moscovici- which says that in order to make progress in the partnership with Turkey with the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the issue of Cyprus?
 We must bear in mind that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than just a fisheries agreement and that, as he knows, if not reaching this agreement, bearing in mind what that means, this fact could conceal a deterioration in relations between the European Union and Morocco.
 Therefore, I must express my scepticism about the outcome.
 With regard to the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, it should be noted that this principle should allow the strengthening of the cooperation of Member States, but also for the protection of the rights of individuals.
 Supplementary questions must be of other Members.
 Furthermore, the Commission, in the communication that d approved on 4 October 2000 on the oil supply of the European Union, states that it wants to submit, at the Gothenburg European Council a plan for energy savings and diversification of energy sources which should help to improve energy efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
 In this spirit, we did, during the vote on the resolution on the embargo, within the framework of the Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations, on 9 November, call on the Cuban authorities to cooperate fully with the international bodies which defend human rights.
 It is therefore up to NATO measures it considers necessary for that cannot happen again.
 (The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
 When one is indisputably money has the privilege to establish clearly the political objectives, and that is what has been made by the Commissioner.
 This presence can provide a global policy we are pursuing.
 If we look at the region as a region of virtual political powers do a mistake.
 Parliament must be consulted and informed regularly, and this is the second request comes the rapporteurs and that we will all have to support.
 The Heads of Government have also confirmed the determination of the Union to support this process with technical and financial aid.
 It was Parliament that supported the Commission's proposal to create the European Agency for Reconstruction.
 As the House knows, we do not believe that it is necessary to make an explicit reference to this in the regulation. Despite the eloquence of Mr.
 The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
 The leaders agreed a framework 2000 extended and updated cooperation between Asia and Europe which is the working programme for the coming decade.
 In my opinion, these issues have reminded us of the important role that Europe represents in Asia, not only in economic and commercial terms, although it should be noted that one of the reasons for the recovery of Asia is that we have kept our word to maintain open our markets to exports from Asia over the last two years.
 I believe that we have made an excellent political declaration, but there are still some problems to resolve.
 We know that the Commission takes very seriously ASEM and fully support this institution in this connection.
 It is necessary to improve the existing mechanisms in the transposition of Community law, to increase the legal certainty and overcome its current slow.
 It should therefore promote the creation of new regional organisations, starting where there is already Community presence, as in the case of the Western Pacific and the South Pacific.
 This will actually help fisheries are sustainable.
 I believe that the future of fishing in international waters depends on these organisations and all the efforts of the Commission, Commissioner, are few. To defend the position of the United Nations, both in the Convention in 1982, as in New York, to which reference has already been made here, we have a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing.
 This is why I believe that the Commission has a very important role to encourage fishermen to be at the forefront, cooperate with it and to propose a solution with which we all agree.
 In addition, the Commission must take charge of all kinds of tasks in connection with the negotiations that have taken place in the context of the regional fishing organisations.
 Mr President, I have the same problem Nicholson, but in my case is even more serious.
 Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions recommended by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
 Sometimes we came to ask ourselves to what extent the cyclical crisis of the market is not caused by the action of the aforementioned speculative business structures, are ensuring that the control of the sector in their interests.
 Community aid extra raised in Mr Garot ’ s report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, when with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform of our agricultural policy.
 Our aim is to introduce a system of safe and it is clear that is based on social criteria. In my opinion, the rapporteur has done an excellent job which shows that the administration is much when it serves a purpose clearly defined, as is the case.
 On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with companies production, it would take no part in this device, preferring the systems that already have individual: savings bank loans, compensation fund.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say in advance that I welcome in principle the Commission proposal to create a fund regulation, also in the framework of the Austrian agriculture.
 I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
 I understand that you want to an organisation of the market for intensive farming and the collapse of agricultural policy when it is linked to the land, where there is an extensive production.
 There is already an organization of markets and we should not make the mistake of questioning the organisation of the market, since in general terms has the desired effect.
 In the view of the Commission is fully justified that only require greater rigour to farmers who participate in the substance of regulation, since after all they receive stable incomes in exchange, while those who do not adhere do not receive any compensation.
 (The sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m.)
 The appeal from the value added tax represented 36% and traditional own resources amounted to 15% of the total.
 Another element of the reform that corresponds fully with one of the fundamental priorities identified by the Court is the need to attach greater importance to the measurement of the results and the action within a framework of allocation of resources, which is consistent with the priorities and the predetermined objectives that are clearly defined and can be measured.
 This is good and I would like to thank you, Mr Karlsson, as Members of the Court of Auditors and its services, the support given to the reform of the Commission in its report.
 In this context and given its proximity, I would also like to remind you that, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, we have proposed a modification of the Treaty that will enable us to create a European public prosecutor responsible for prosecuting fraud against the financial interests of the Community. I sincerely hope that the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice is not limited to take note of the proposal or scrap, but that it should be discussed seriously.
 The reality, as described in the annual report, it is rather disappointing.
 The number of errors identified is too high in order to provide this guarantee.
 The amount earmarked for planning activities has fallen short of EUR 240 million.
 Also the assumption that the Court of Auditors' report would be slightly more user-friendly and it would provide some clear recommendations, for example, one or two clear recommendations for chapter.
 In 1995 a Convention on the protection of the economic interests of the European Union.
 The Commission and the Member States should look from this angle and use the results of the report as a tool to improve their performance in the management of the finances of the European Union.
 I know that this report and the role which is about to embark Parliament in the context of the discharge will help to increase the vigilance with regard to Community expenditure.
 And at this point, Madam President, I would like to finish and hope that someone in the Council came here.
 The Court, as in other years, has not said exactly where mistakes have been made.
 Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union is approaching and the Court of Auditors' report makes it clear that we must carry out a hard work in the applicant countries.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently come to an agreement with the Court of Auditors for which we could receive information from the Court of Auditors in advance with absolutely confidential nature and also agree that effectively putting in silence.
 I would also like to address the Council and ask why no progress is being made with regard to Article 24 of the financial regulation.
 It may be that a bit of common sense of the European Union should contribute to the resolution of the problem and to put George Bush in the place of the history that it deserves - its dustbin!
 We must not look for scapegoats, nor in our institutions and in our Member States.
 Firstly, with regard to the procedure for the presentation of the annual report to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control, I am pleased to hear the reassurances of honourable Members in the sense that the situation this year is more successful than in previous years.
 But we will have an opportunity to discuss this.
 When it is important from the point of view of taxation, we mention everything that needs to be mentioned.
 Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have noted, the final part of the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors has suffered the consequences of the interference of a virus awful between your speech and this House.
 Some amendments, such as Amendments Nos 1 and 18, relate to issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom, and I have to say that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, Greens, unpopular or have defended with great vehemence and have been approved in the Committee on the environment.
 Mr President, in March of this year, we adopted the directive on the funicular railways for the transport of people.
 We believe that must not be passed on to the manufacturer's trade obligations laid down in the legislation relating to the safety of products.
 We have heard the justifications for them and also in favour of repeating the arguments of the sector which already heard in committee.
 The seller should suffice report the buyer on the nature of the products and on the scant information provided on them.
 Lastly, a question to the European Commission in relation to Article 4, in relation to European standards and to the issue of whether these rules should be made public.
 I am pleased with the exceptions which include for establishments of institutions and not-for-profit charitable organisations, and for goods sold as second-hand products in car boot sales or by private individuals.
 The reliability in the safety of products and after-sales assistance are a more added value to the European label in a particularly difficult time and decisive.
 When, in another context, we call on the Commission to submit a proposal on the safety of services, it is incomprehensible that we now want to regulate jointly aspects relating to services, instead of waiting for the Commission to present its proposal. Indeed, it is already possible to predict that delimitation problems will arise from the scope of the different rules and legal uncertainty increase over time.
 I would like to say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal.
 We have also provided for the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular, to the candidate countries: the simplification of procedures in order to introduce emergency measures at Community level, so that we can intervene promptly following the advice of a regulatory committee.
 This new requirement does not imply any additional substantial liability in the case of this type of shops.
 Replacing the word "producer" for "borrower", as proposed in Amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, since there is no definition of borrower in the directive.
 Although the Commission is in favour of the creation of a network, the sooner this point has to be agreed between the Member States.
 Such a certificate can always be used to provide evidence, but cannot be considered in itself as a litmus test.
 Having explained in detail the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 36 to 34, and part of Amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21, and the first part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31, 35 and part of Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21, and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, because constitute an improvement and a clarification of the Commission proposal.
 Of course, Mr Barón Crespo, if it is Italian socialist cannot be part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
 I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
 As regards the order of the vote, I leave it to the President, and I would point out that, in any case, I am against the three amendments.
 The non-Community Mediterranean countries are faced with, no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to economic development. Regional inequalities are acrecientan unimpeded.
 With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, in the name of a harmonised European policy on immigration, in addition to the legal instruments to ensure their fair treatment, create instruments of financial aid in favour of all those young people who, having completed a cycle of higher university studies or in the countries of Europe, want to return to their countries of origin to start to exert a professional activity.
 I would like to emphasise a factor, which is frankly decisive in this issue; the lack of equality in the workplace.
 Albeit belatedly, the Commission presented the programme relating to the Community framework strategy on equality between men and women (2001-2005), which strays markedly from its predecessors and, in particular, of the fourth action programme which expires at the end of this year.
 On the one hand, because they have taken account of various proposals for improvements tabled by my group. On the other, because it stresses the need to examine the situation of women in the national labour markets and the inadequate access to social security systems on the basis of statistics produced from representative and data broken down by gender.
 My party has serious reservations with regard to apply Community legislation on the sale of consumer products, as regards the refusal of applying the concept of mutual recognition of standards.
 Now understands this and labour amendments offer a guarantee that these shops will remain intact and will be exempt from the directive.
 Finally, Amendment No 15 leaves a free hand to the Commission with regard to the language regime of the Agency, which we consider to be very worrying.
 The simplification of the decision-making procedures, the creation of bases of decentralised operations (not only in Pristina, where it has acquired the meaning of its separation of Yugoslavia), the treatment of the dual structure between the Council of administration and the Commission, can prove positive movements in the direction of tackling the enormous bureaucratic inadequacy of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
 We are therefore voting against both the Commission proposal and Parliament ’ s report.
 For all these reasons, it seems justified which adapts Community rules in this area.
 Furthermore, the fund offers the possibility of administrations more or less covert competition-distorting aid in the form of cofinancing by the Member States.
 . (EL) Despite its serious shortcomings, the Morillon report is undoubtedly more advanced that the Commission proposal with regard to the European Union - ôurquía association.
 We voted against.
 Like the rapporteur, we must admit that Turkey has made progress in some respects and that there are positive signs.
 Since 1987 our House had started the path of recognition, and the adoption of this amendment demonstrates the coherence of Parliament in this debate.
 The Union must make more proposals and consider enlargement to include Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
 These ulterior motives are unworthy of Europe and unworthy of Turkey.
 For several years, as a Member of the delegation for relations with Canada, I noticed the operation of one of these organisations, NAFO recently had with regional fisheries organisation (in the north-west Atlantic), involving the countries of this region, including Canada, and all those who use in this place traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
 It is not at all satisfied until its fleet, proclaiming gunboat flags of "ring of stars," to monitor compliance with its fisheries policies.
 What is important is, therefore, not satisfy the desire for hegemony of the Commission and weaken the position of Europe, which would be in contradiction with the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity.
 Finally, following difficult negotiations, we reached a result which is worth defending.
 The aim of this proposal which aims to replace three directives on the incineration of waste is to improve the quality of air, water, soil, the health of people, by reducing emissions of pollutants linked to the activities of incineration and co-incineration and, above all, dioxins and furans of heavy metals.
 However, I also consider it important to emphasise innovation now that it is no longer merely emissions into the atmosphere, but also of emissions to waters and the land.
 The proposal has been improved during its preparation.
 The introduction of limits far more stringent NOx emissions for the new co-incinerators, such as cement kilns, is another step forward that will act as an incentive to the reduction of emissions, despite the fact that the proposed rules do not reflect the best available techniques.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise - especially to Mr Blokland - for having arrived a few minutes late.
 In conclusion, this directive is an important contribution to the reduction of the harmful effects on the environment and the risks that they represent to human health.
 The European Parliament is to be met, on behalf of discrimination and the fight against the exclusions and on respect for the individual responsibilities, to give a strong boost to the creation of an instrument which will enable there to be specifically the essential principle of solidarity.
 There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and detailed statistics comparable to say truthfully what is in force in each country, what is - and dónde- what works best, what the weaknesses are, etc. It is precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drafted on behalf of the Committee on Economic and monetary policy, the need is stressed, before legislating Community rules on the supplementary insurance disease, for the Commission to draw up a Green Paper to collect and sistematice all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
 Until now, this matter has been considered taboo to some extent.
 We run the risk that due to the presence of serious risks to the public health problems and the elderly can only recruit a limited private insurance, which is incompatible with the social developments.
 The second point of view illustrated by the initial intention of the rapporteur and shared by many colleagues, is to promote the regulations and the codes of conduct necessary to establish, between insurers, forms of inclusion of costs - guaranteeing all the provision of good quality health care - and to avoid the risk of discriminatory practices, as well as a selection of risks and customers.
 I think it is quite wrong that the money will be the determining factor to be first in the queue.
 The new proposal from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is correct: first prepares an inventory in a Green Paper and then decide whether we need a directive or a recommendation.
 Today, in the Netherlands a debate is under way on the introduction of structural changes in the system.
 This is the basis of the basis of the Commission to produce an initiative and articulate touchstones which may become concrete guidelines for the health systems of the Member States.
 Therefore, it is unlikely that the answer is one single solution and for all medical insurance.
 I therefore believe that we must opt for the content of the report by Mr Rocard, whom I congratulate, which calls on the Commission to the provision of a service, a Green Paper that will enable us to know the present state of insurance in the Member States and also define the future.
 Both are developing on a model based on three pillars: the State, entrepreneurial and private.
 As regards supplementary pensions, the European Union has already produced a series of rules. It has done through the drafting of a Green Paper has shown a draft directive.
 Mr President, I would like to express my thanks and congratulations to Mr Rocard for his report, and congratulate Mr.
 This study will form the basis for a communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament to propose initiatives or measures.
 In relation to the amendments of the Committee on Budgets, I can say with satisfaction that have all been incorporated.
 We have supported the characteristic features of the programme, such as the treatment of the multidimensional phenomenon, the measures on health, education, housing, consistency and complementarity with other related policies, as well as the participation of non-governmental organisations, and the actual people affected by social exclusion.
 This means that we need to use the powerful phases of the cycle to restore the situation to a balance or surplus.
 In this regard simply remind you that the Ecofin Council has requested of the Commission that, as from next year, is already included in the assessment of the stability programmes precisely this aspect of the long term of public finances relating to the ageing of the population.
 One of the positive features of the programme of the Netherlands is the special attention which provides - as I said before, the impact of the ageing of the population in public finance over the coming years.
 For that reason, the resulting budget for the year 2000, in the German case, will give a situation of surplus and a half a point of gross domestic product.
 If we add to this the evolution of the exchange rate of the euro against the dollar, we have had a clear negative impact in terms of inflation.
 Also move in the direction of making compatible a public system of distribution in private capitalisation systems and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of investment funds can obtain specific tax advantages in the long term and can help to tackle the problem of ageing.
 The third principle that guides us, then, is the precautionary principle.
 It should be remembered that are currently being discussed several proposals regulations, which will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism and, therefore, I hope - the confidence of consumers.
 However, this relatively low incidence is no reason to be satisfied.
 Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday the Prime Minister Jospin there were no recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
 There is a clear need to find explanations to the increase in the incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
 The Food and Veterinary Office of the Commission already gives absolute priority to the control of the Member States in connection with the protection measures against BSE.
 With regard to its security, let me repeat that there is already a large number of checks in force to ensure that animal meal do not represent a threat from BSE.
 Yes, though it may be difficult to believe, it took four years to adopt a measure that I consider it essential for the protection of public health.
 Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to emphatically demand that the Council made public, finally, its opinion about the regulation on BSE.
 In this situation, the only way to break the circle of transmission of BSE is a complete ban on the use of animal meal in animal feed.
 In this regard, I would like to say that the Liberal Group has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
 Policies need to change this state of affairs for those who are really responsible for this crisis are penalised and specific decisions to enable it to take a first step in order to put an end to this dramatic crisis.
 I would, therefore, be revised.
 The labelling of beef which has been adopted, which is a minimum and labelling which entered into force only two and a half months, does not make it possible to trace the origin of animals and have banned very late specific risk materials.
 The public must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test to which I refer.
 At the time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did nothing or almost nothing, as their counterparts nor did nothing about the consequences of Chernobyl, nothing about the AIDS epidemic, nothing about the contaminated blood, provided for the same reason: not panic among the public.
 The French ban will result in a huge increase in demand, but stocks of this products are limited.
 Consumers have lost confidence, and to contain this phenomenon is necessary to generalise the BSE tests to cattle and sheep.
 In the spirit of the Commission proposal is now much more important to ensure that animal meal meet the highest safety criteria.
 Moreover, I fully agree - for once and without setting a precedent with what has been said by my colleagues Mrs Ainardi, Mrs Auroi and Mrs Grossetête.
 Well, gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, have a financial basis enough to carry out a sound policy.
 We must tackle it. '.
 Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I am pleased to hear, within this Chamber, that, come what may, it is necessary to change the CAP.
 We have already condemned at the moment, here, with Jimmy Goldsmith.
 Food must be a safe food for human beings.
 I think it is quite exemplary that France has been quick to take this step.
 But these are not help!
 For this reason, I am surprised that in these circumstances we could continue to use or process bodies.
 It was recently published in the UK the Phillips report on BSE.
 I would suggest that the European Commission also applying the precautionary principle with regard to beef from France.
 Today we must know, because we are still in the dark, what the scientific data, which measures are to be taken.
 Moreover, I have heard all these proposals; I am not insensitive to them.
 If representatives of the Member States come and tell me that the legislation has not been implemented in their entirety, perhaps we should change the subject, but we will not do so because scientists tell us that this is necessary, but because there are gaps in compliance with the law in the European Union.
 The best way is not to hear us not invite us. In any case, Mr.
 The Commission considers that for the clarification and the coordination of these policies, readmission agreements play an important role and are currently under negotiation the first Community readmission agreements with Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Morocco.
 What proposals does the Commission have in this area on the basis of Article 31 of the Union?
 (The President cut the speaker off)
 The objective during this period has been reducing the public deficit to achieve a monetary policy that is more acomodante, lower interest rates and higher growth.
 I always say that the euro will be introduced on 1 January 2002, the euro is already in our pockets; we have fraccionarias different coins, but we already have in the pocket.
 The maximum values laid down by the Directive 92 / 72 will not be exceeded in the city of Athens, although it should be noted that no measurements were carried out in the middle of the summer.
 Subject: public aid for the audiovisual sector in a seminar of the French Presidency on the industries connected with the culture, a representative of the Competition Directorate-General of the European Commission stated that the legal obligations of investment imposed on the television channels constitute State aid by the fact that these investments are imposed mandatory by the legislator.
 It must be respected and protected ’.
 However, it is not obvious, since the new growth is very truly unequal and can be accompanied, as we have seen in the United States since some ten years ago by persistent phenomena of insecurity, of exclusion, poverty, ghettización URBAN.
 The governments of the Member States did not accept this definition, which is also truth is something simple and cheap.
 In the hostile environment that is created, there are many who are on the way and that they are rejected.
 Mr President, in this plenary listens very frequently, as a mantra, the glorification of the European social model and the social market economy to be set with pride - many think - the savage model of the United States.
 (technical glitch)
 This is a huge amount.
 Furthermore, they must be incorporated into all political levels.
 I agree on the need to have a better understanding of the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of mergers, industrial change, delocalization, rural abandonment, urban hyperconcentration, innovative and practical measures which involve the participation of social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
 There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in the fight against social exclusion and the role of social and structural reforms.
 This is a problem of a legal nature, since, according to the wording of the Treaty, we can only the reference to social exclusion and poverty.
 In my opinion, these proposals provide a pragmatic answer to your question.
 But to agree in the strategy does not necessarily mean coincide in the details.
 If we define a clear framework and binding on the Member States, the various systems that have to meet such requirements must be a test period longer.
 Renewable energy sources are not going to be a panacea for solving this problem. But there is no doubt that, in large part, can help to improve the situation and also diversifying energy sources and to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, which furthermore would not do any harm.
 I shall repeat three of our demands.
 The establishment of realistic objectives without doubt will serve to increase the confidence of the citizen in energy policy to be applied.
 I believe that a vigorous policy in the field of renewable energies is a symbol for the Europe of tomorrow.
 Finally, these agreements must allow the countries of Europe to fulfil its contribution to achieving the targets set in Kyoto.
 It is regrettable that excluding any category which can contribute to the achievement of the overall objective of recovering energy from waste - whether small-scale projects as if it is a part of the total - calculation.
 The shaping of biomass of peat in his photosynthesis and production of vegetable waste is similar to that of the other plant biomass.
 I would like to inform Mr Chichester that off the coast of my people are rapidly deployed windmills at sea, a project which, without a doubt, is going to come into operation in a very short time, so I would like to invite him to see when has already been set in motion.
 The controversy over the renunciation of nuclear energy, for example in Sweden and Germany, has revealed that, if there are no on the horizon ecological energy alternatives that are practicable at a competitive price, the debate is doomed to failure.
 For this reason, the Member States must have binding targets.
 Therefore, I am optimistic about the future potential for renewable energies, always provided the necessary incentives.
 I think that we need to put much value continually to renewable energy sources in the place they deserve.
 A very strong rises in the price of oil, undoubtedly, confronts us with greater severity before the problems associated with our dependence on fossil energy sources.
 We cannot, therefore, accept Amendment 28.
 However, in doing this, the Commission is fully aware that the words used not prejudge its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single market for electricity.
 In the Committee for the reconstruction of Tajikistan, where there are 25 000 widows, only one of the 26 delegates was a woman.
 Despite the fact that the proportion of women has been limited, studies have shown that the participation of women in the peacekeeping forces of the UN to improve relations with the local population and the general moral.
 Theorin report falls in this field in very specific details and makes repetitions that we as the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats please be drawn in the sense of an official document.
 From a political point of view, I think that Amendment No 19 can be interpreted as a defeat tactic tactical or a step backwards rather than a real commitment, which is not worthy of the cause of women.
 Were kept imprisoned.
 Also Portugal, where women have not had access to diplomacy until April 1974 "revolution", has demonstrated recently in the case of East Timor and our ambassador in Indonesia, Ana Gomes, that the role of a woman and its sensitivity to the problems and the suffering of a people that faced alone a fight 25 years for freedom can be ways throughout the world and, in particular, here in the European Parliament.
 To date are few Member States which have done so.
 It is therefore necessary to take account of this dimension to chart the policies of the European Union in the future.
 Unfortunately, it is not appropriate to define the concepts and make distinctions.
 Please pass on to the Council our protest.
 Are people with different experiences; necessary experiences in the way in which it holds the policy, especially in the management of conflicts.
 The debate is closed.
 Which brings me to my second point. If it wishes to regulate the sector, we will need to consider several aspects.
 The last few weeks I have known that there is a great deal of interest on the part of the international trade union as some national trade union organisations.
 Allegation against two. Then agree with a salary for housewives?
 Makes life easier for many families and promotes equal opportunities.
 Often, in this project have joined two or three families to put together a person.
 We have been sitting in the plenary of this first part-session in October, when we held the debate on the situation in Yugoslavia, when we learned of the reaction of the Serbian people, courageous and immediately, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the lifting of international sanctions.
 With this, Europe has shown the vitality of its civilisation, within the framework of world history, and its ability to creative political imagination to its future development.
 It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
 On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own media, through the recognition of the principles of democracy.
 I must say that, listening to you, I impresioné much by the way in which you controlled such a difficult situation, and at the same time for his determination.
 Will be sorted out in the next minutes, Mr Watson.
 Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to monitor the governing bodies of the EU and stimulates greater effectiveness.
 I believe that a fifth amendment important is the annual report to be particularly examine documents have to keep secret or, at least, are kept secret.
 This issue is ambiguous, and it is also possible that and will enter into force more restrictive rules, so we have tabled amendments to this point, among others.
 The Committee on Foreign Affairs rejected the idea of exempting of transparency, and automatically in group, to documents relating to foreign affairs and security.
 If we want the citizens' rights to be truly effective, we need for these posts for new staff who are specifically prepared to guide the citizens seeking information through the complicated maze of the institutions.
 They are important in order to achieve an internal advertising.
 I welcome the fact that Parliament has succeeded in creating a large majority in favour of greater openness.
 Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for this excellent work.
 Mr President, access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy good reputation.
 If so, it makes a mistake, because it is the credibility and reliability of the European Union for the citizen.
 Documents are many things today, and we would like to ensure that there is the widest possible access to many different types of documentation from the most varied ways possible.
 Mr President, the Commission's position with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the internal manual which was sent on 11 October to Commission employees to inform you of how to handle applications for access to public documents submitted by Members of the European Parliament.
 This provision must be eliminated or, at least, enlarged to include consideration of the interests of the applicant.
 The usual way in which is developing cooperation in the international field with the rules of the game and uses of diplomacy, that is to say, that everything is carried out with the curtains reductions in modern, does not serve the cooperation which has developed the EU.
 Should not be confused with the role of the European Parliament or with the future interinstitutional agreements.
 I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
 However, he is the only one whom I thank, many thanks are also deserves Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen of the PPE-DE Group, who was the draftsman of the proposal under the strict application of the Hughes procedure.
 Transparency must establish itself as the cornerstone of all the activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente itself for the realisation of transparency.
 The European Parliament asks that the European security and defence policy must be introduced in the future in the structures of the European Commission.
 When addressed Parliament, on 3 October last, President Prodi referred to the institutional triangle and referred to in a European system based on checks and balances, the fluidity of the operation of each institution contributes to the common interest.
 I must admit that the great challenge in this regulation is the precise definition of what are documents.
 I would like to stress that, in its time, practically, the Commission could accept all of the amendments, such as Amendment No 9, 18, 21 partially, 23, 25, the 26.1 F, 28, 35, 38, the 40.1, the 40.6, 41.1, 42, the 43.1, 47, 49 and 52.
 I would like to vote in favour of the proposals made by the Commission, and to this end it is necessary that Members have the list of amendments that the Commission can support and the list of those who do not want to support.
 Own funds of credit institutions
 Lastly, and most controversial, the Commission made a strong call for the use of a fast-track procedure for the implementation of this legislation.
 These amendments replace several other proposals in the report which will probably be rejected in the vote and will then be replaced by these new amendments resulting from this consensus.
 Mr President, in view of the excellent vote of support for this report and given the response of the Commission this morning, it is obvious - if you look at all the parties on which we voted - that, under Article 69 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, we should defer the vote on the draft legislative resolution to be able to start negotiations with the Commission and the Council.
 Mr President, I am sorry if I said that the PPE-DE Group had also asked for the vote to be postponed, but their coordinator came up to me and said that they wanted to postpone the matter until the session of November II, instead of voting now.
 The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels stated - is a very important issue.
 I do not know how much it costs a roll-call vote but it is without doubt of hundreds of thousands of francs, or Belgian francs, of our budget.
 I know that in France entire herds have been slaughtered and do not believe that this is the best way forward.
 The removal of animal meal in feedingstuffs for all animals, not just the cattle and sheep, but also of the pigmeat, poultry and fish,
 This is not acceptable.
 Will such provisions as consumers and farmers will be reassured hear the message of solidarity that we want to give them.
 It is necessary and urgent to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
 The ban on the use of animal meal in cattle feed is only the first step in this direction.
 We very much regret, however, that the amendments tabled by our Group were not adopted.
 I believe that it would be sensible to reduce the working hours of those who work in businesses that pollute.
 I shall conclude by insisting on the fact that the generalisation of the exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead to adapt to the production of such waste.
 In fact, if, for example, had more pensions enough to live on, there would be less poor.
 The report raises an appropriation of EUR 100 million over five years to reduce poverty.
 I therefore give my unreserved support to the proposal to put in place a Luxembourg process (b) in the field of social exclusion, which includes guidelines and national action plans.
 Indeed, the report calls for the establishment of qualitative and quantitative indicators of social exclusion.
 In presenting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is complying with the Council ’ s request to present "to June 2000" A "initiative on cooperation in this area '.
 Mr President, I have abstained for a very specific reason: this report, in my opinion, has not done from the ecological point of view, these progress than I had expected and auguraba.
 I trust that this system is extended to all the cities of Europe.
 Some of the European Parliament's proposals are not realistic and cannot count on my support.
 We must also be able to achieve better in a future which are more publicly known existing best practice.
 People with high income and are aware of the environment have the freedom to choose cleaner energy within a free market, while the rest is still unable to choose.
 The next item is the first item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
 These three reasons are as follows: firstly, because it is in the process of consolidating democracy and the deepening of the requirement of respect for human rights, particularly in relation to the indigenous populations.
 Mr President, in this debate, we want to express, as has rightly been said by the other Members who have spoken before me in the use of the word, the solidarity and support of our institution at the Central American Parliament at a time when we are fighting for the continued priority in the field of external relations of the European Union with the countries of Latin America.
 I do not have the reservations which he has been able to express our colleague and dear friend, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the issue of human rights.
 Finally, in the dialogue with the Central American authorities, the Commission is also by reiterating the importance to be given to the process of regional integration as an instrument for consolidating democracy and development in the region.
 To hold on to power has not hesitated to conquer the obsessive debate on the "marfilidad", causing a wave of xenophobia: hatred of another, abroad, at from Burkina or the Malian, and yet there are many working and living in the territory of Côte d'Ivoire for many years.
 The establishment of a genuine democracy in Ivory Coast it will not be possible without the creation of an independent committee of inquiry of the crimes committed, and without the formal commitment to respect human rights and civil peace.
 Some believe that the importance of democracy is on when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, that must be given time. However, I believe that no compromise is possible with democracy and the question being asked today to Côte d'Ivoire is the same as that which arises for example in Guinea, when we now know that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
 I shall conclude with the following question: there are dictatorships, Mr President, simply because there are people who suffer from misery, who do not have access to information, which do not have access to knowledge.
 It would be illogical that the European Union today have demanded the holding of new presidential elections in which they can participate, this time, all the candidates.
 This can be seen in many parts of Africa on the most diverse religious and ethnic blends.
 These elections must allow the representation at national level of the political parties that are excluded in the presidential election and thus offsetting, albeit partially, the imperfections of this first choice.
 On the situation in Burma
 They are doing a great offensive against the Shan people and against the Karen people and, as the rapporteur has stated, there is any sign of dialogue between the SPDC and the National League for Democracy.
 Therefore, we reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the Commission and the Council in this direction.
 I hope that by giving priority to this issue as a matter of urgency, this Parliament will send a clear message to the people of Burma that their plight is not forgotten and that we recognise that the situation in Burma is getting worse rather than better and we are determined to try to do something about it.
 It has been a long time coming.
 In Asia is precisely the danger that economic reforms and policies to be desacoplen, that may have economic progress and economic liberalisation without liberalisation in the political sphere and without strengthening the rule of law, although I am of the opinion that without the rule of law that works, trade, aid and investments will have been lost in the long term.
 Mr President, I agree with my predecessors on the floor with many essential points of what they have said, as much of what is now happening in Vietnam is not acceptable.
 However, now says Human Rights Watch, to which you referred, Mr Swoboda, that Vietnam has given in the last time some steps to improve the situation in relation to human rights.
 These highly secret documents provide us with a strange look behind the scenes of the policy of the Vietnamese administration.
 The Commission is still convinced, however, that can only be a lasting solution to the current situation by means of a dialogue between the military regime, the opposition and the democratically elected representatives of the ethnic minorities.
 There are also clear pressures of the Vietnamese authorities to their own press has a regime of self-censorship.
 In accordance with the agenda, I must now the debate on the following motions for resolutions:
 We also demand that the EU give aid and assistance, not only in the south-west but in all the areas that have been affected.
 I would ask you all to support our resolution.
 It is urgent that the Union is not limited to deploy extraordinary actions when disasters have already happened.
 The Commission has taken two initiatives in this respect.
 Mr President, there has been an error in introducing a purely linguistic amendments in the joint resolution.
 The vote on your delay means postponing the task to the Commission.
 (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 The report is based on the premise that an ever greater part of health insurance in Europe is covered by supplementary sickness insurance.
 I find it strange that the Commission now wants to be required for a proposal for a directive, but that at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of voluntary associations and medical insurance complementary.
 In an era in which the population is ageing dramatically, it is crucial that we try to improve the health system for people throughout Europe.
 We could not contribute to this.
 Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of the fast track when it comes to implementing the results of the review of Basle on banking capital adequacy.
 In these circumstances, such an initiative would have quite the opposite effect to the expected to impose our banking sectors additional obligations without guarantees of compensation. Despite the demands of this House, the Commission does not have any means to ensure that the banks of the European Union will cease to be the subject of a discriminatory treatment by the American authorities.
 We have to be careful that Basle, moreover, does not produce that banks will cause a second burden higher demand 'own funds.
 This first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators satisfactory also view the approach which has been giving these regulations on capital reinforce issues relating to risk.
 These are a few initial thoughts on how we could achieve a legislative process to be controllable quickly and efficiently within the existing rules of the Treaty.
 And, indeed, the time has come to admit that the institution of the European Ombudsman 'is sufficiently developed and has already given sufficient proof of maturity in order to have its own budget.
 Consequently / ED Group supports the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the mandate of the European Ombudsman should be extended and the sooner the better, especially as regards the Ombudsman's investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the decision of 1994.
 An Ombudsman is of course bound by the rules governing the documentary secret, but it is good that the citizens know that he or she, as Ombudsman, may have access to the documents that they themselves do not have.
 The starting point of this report is ombudsmann's recommendation to the Commission, in relation to this, which make it possible for the candidates access to their examinations already corrected in respect of the selection procedure organised by the same.
 We believe that the Community institutions should carry out its procedures for recruitment of staff and, indeed, all its procedures, with the maximum openness and transparency in order to avoid the suspicions of partiality, injustice and administrative incompetence.
 I am referring here to an amendment to the requirement of the indisputable proof of developing an oral test, for example.
 Our colleague, Mr Bösch, has already explained briefly here the amendments that have been made in this report.
 Having asked two questions to the Commission on the management and organisation of the last internal opposition, I received specific answers and detailed.
 So we are starting to open up the process of the government and to make it transparent.
 First, on the tests which have been made by the Commission, the corrections are always anonymously.
 Obviously I was talking about July 2000.
 Votes
 (Parliament rejected the proposal to postpone the vote)
 To assess the directive on own resources of credit institutions must be carefully weighed the various interests that come into conflict.
 Then came the idea of a European police college for the Member States of the European Union and for the applicant countries.
 This is also the position defended by the rapporteur and which the European People's Party shares.
 The social situation in most of the Member States of the European Union is such that there is a great need for cooperation between the different police forces beyond the borders of their own country.
 It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers it essential that school has a fixed location.
 The umpteenth interim decision but not precarious, a regalito that the Council tends to do in this Parliament.
 The rapporteur wishes to add the prevention of crime, the provision of services, innovation and border policing and wants to change the internal security so that includes the maintenance of law and order.
 Those were the ideals that we set out to do, and it was the kind of state on which they worked.
 I welcome the possibility of levelling down the standards of some Member States of the European Union.
 Since the first thoughts on this file made at European level on the initiative of the European Parliament, the Commission undertook to the Member States to make progress on an action intended to develop what we could consider a European police culture underpinned by the highest standards of ethics, respect for the rights and freedoms of the citizens and effectiveness in the fight against crime.
 It seeks to ensure that the police academy develops mainly on intergovernmental.
 For the reasons relating, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
 - (SV) I have voted against the report on provisional establishment of the European police college.
 Certainly many of our courts are very slow and ponderosos, and it is very difficult to make them to act quickly on these matters.
 Of course, the proposed regulation is not perfect, since it connects with the Brussels II regulation "," which does not include children whose parents are separated, as well as the children outside marriage.
 My own mother suffered such a separation and kidnapping is 85 years old, and even talk about this.
 Therefore, what I would say to the House that the action programme on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in civil matters - we hope adoption by the end of this year, the Commission is proposing to give top priority to the first and the extension of the scope of the Brussels II regulation and, consequently, of this regulation on the right to visit, covering without discrimination to the children of married couples and partnerships.
 We shall now proceed to the vote.
 Today, sport - we should say is closely linked to other economic sectors, such as, for example, the industries of the audiovisual sector or to the promotion and sale of sporting goods.
 What we need is an intelligent and flexible interpretation of the current rules.
 It is, strictly speaking, an attack against democracy, however much we avoid seeing things in this light.
 The Commission therefore this waiting to receive an answer to your request detailed information on the measures planned by the UK Government.
 This proposal was submitted by the Minister for the economy in a statement made pre-presupuestaria six months before the full presentation of the draft budget in the spring of 2001.
 Once again, I believe that what has been said by Mr Simpson has been extremely helpful to reassure us on the likely intentions of the UK Government.
 Traffic jams are not only a loss of time, not only generate high costs, but for the environment are a problem, and that is why I believe, if the British government genuinely allocate money to resolve these problems, then all will be something of this, in particular all the citizens of Europe.
 We are practically the only oil producer in the European Union and in spite of this, we have higher prices of petrol, diesel higher prices compared with any other country in Europe - in Britain 1,20 paying GBP diesel per litre.
 This item is closed.
 The European Parliament must tell them that is at your side, and I propose that, once again, with a minute ’ s silence to express our solidarity and our emotions.
 Madam President, I totally support, since I am one of those who have requested the inclusion of this point.
 We achieved some important developments.
 The EU will deepen its relations with all the major groups and will also in contact with the new government of the USA as soon as possible.
 Prescott on the agreement which he himself had produced, how is it that not only Mrs Voynet, but also, I believe, the majority of the other European environment ministers - and this is my last question to the Commissioner - rejected it?
 It is to be feared that has been lost momentum and American negotiators change and may have to start again.
 Forests have been the major obstacle.
 A part of the soil of the countries of the European Union will become desert or sea as a result of the continuing global warming to which they are subjected.
 The wealth is high and the price of oil products under.
 I congratulate Commissioner Wallström for their efforts in the Hague and I wish you much success.
 No doubt it was better not to reach an agreement, which have a bad agreement, and in this case the American position was a position of concessions, totally unacceptable for Europe.
 Climate changes have major consequences in developing countries.
 I would like to repeat it in English: forest turns from being 'sinks' carbon to carbon sources.
 Only this credibility will enable the European Union to adopt the position and action in the COP VI "B" in Bonn.
 We are going to have to do our own evaluation of what happened and prepare documents to be in contact with the parties and, of course, with "the group of broad representation."
 Of course, the follow-up to the next COP6 or the continuation of COP6 will be the ratification of an agreement within the Union.
 Before the European Council, Pierre Moscovici and myself will keep a ministerial conclave next Sunday I invited Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, as well as a sitting of the IGC, on Monday on the occasion of the General Affairs Council.
 The minimum number of Member States were to participate was to limit to eight, and the clause on appeal to the European Council, which is currently a genuine right of veto, being replaced by a right of knowledge.
 We may regret it, but I am obliged to make this observation.
 The European Council will also discuss the progress of accession negotiations, and therefore of enlargement.
 The Lisbon European Council had approved guidelines to promote a European economy innovative and competitive.
 Consumer protection is a growing concern of Europeans, for obvious reasons which do not require greater explanation.
 We must prepare for this unprecedented enlargement.
 Unfortunately, the current text of the Conference is very complicated, very vague and very long, with two protocols: however, despite the extent and complexity, this is also very weak, has not made the simple answer that it is for the simple problem that we have a long time ago.
 (Applause)
 One was that the candidate Member States themselves should adopt and implement the acquis communautaire; this is the task which share with us.
 We appreciate the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we do not wish merely to declamarla.
 It is true that your text could have been better, and it can be improved and pointed out after Nice.
 I find it unacceptable that various governments have refused point blank to consider the possibility of including a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
 You do not even want to introduce it in the Treaty and this is proof that this document, it had to be put to one side.
 We will speak with a single and unrewarding vote in the WTO.
 Given the dubious prospects of success, I do not think it is right to put the Intergovernmental Conference with another matter extremely complex and controversial.
 I appeal urgently to the French Presidency in order to make every effort to remove this alienation, since it is extremely destructive.
 In terms of commercial policy, the Commission has produced a proposal which must be examined carefully.
 Although in the previous Treaty some progress was made in the enlargement of this formula, also contributed the absurd formula of unanimity for more codecision matters relating to citizenship, social security, the rights of the self-employed, and also the cultural policy.
 The simple approach to this issue is, in itself, clearly shows the failure of a policy of strengthening the links of mutual confidence between the countries of the Union.
 This is the situation in which we have locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody waives her toys.
 This year's experience compels us to say that the momentum that we must give the constitutionalisation of the Union after Nice, and looking to the future of Europe must not be left to the method, already exhausted, reserved for negotiation between the representatives of governments.
 As Mr Prodi has just said, if it is not adopted a rule on the majority decision-making is irremediably obstructs.
 In our debate today is nothing was said on that aspect of subsidiarity, but it is extremely important.
 We did so, spent the 1995 enlargement, came the reflection group who chaired very rightly Carlos wensterdorp wine, Amsterdam and now we have Nice and we are almost identical, Mr President: going round to the institutional issues, without finding solutions that will enable us to give a ambiciosísima task, which is enlargement to 27.
 Let us not add to the disappointment that will lead to the Nice Summit, if that Nice is, of course, it is futile, the disappointment caused the peoples by our Parliament.
 In the past, we are showing that this objective was achievable and, as a representative of a new Member State that has benefited from a transition to the planned accession, I hope with positive attitude the achievement of an enlarged Europe and peaceful.
 But we must understand that if you have the right of veto, so too have others.
 But we must also make a first transition for Parliament to be elected in 2004, because some Member States at least adopt before the new Parliament elected in 2004 or during your term of office until 2009.
 The President of the Council has dealt with the issue of closer cooperation and said that we are moving towards a consensus on this matter.
 Mr President, at first sight, Nice is the necessary adjustments and the unresolved issues in the run-up to enlargement.
 If we had something of this mindset, if we were to do less emphasis on what is wrong in this part of the world and we put more emphasis on what is going well, it would be something more fortunate what we are at this time.
 Majority decisions to be taken by the Council must not only apply to goods, but also other related areas such as services, investment, intellectual property and competition. Paragraph 1 of Article 133 has changed in that direction.
 The European Parliament's right of initiative would open the way for arbitrariness of political parties was also rife in this extremely sensitive area.
 Therefore, as one of you, by referring to the American optimism and the way in which the Americans speak for themselves, we should also emphasise what works and what progress is being made.
 I would also say that I do not believe that there is a problem between small and large countries.
 We have worked hard, but we are confronted with this long-standing problem, and I do not think we can start evolution by the action of a single country, because we are facing, once again, in the twelve of the fifteen Member States, to certain - national realities, political, democratic - very important.
 Finally, President Mr Védrine, you have demonstrated a situation too tense and also spoke of pessimism.
 Will he take you, furthermore, general measures to enhance the safety of appropriate ways to prevent something similar happen?
 In my opinion, we must adopt the appropriate precautions - that we have not yet done so that the guests of this Parliament can be happy, without having to feel fear of the potential threats. To this end, we must create the necessary technical conditions, both from the point of view of the organisation and from the security point of view.
 Here, hospitality; there, hospitality and respect.
 I thank him for his contribution, Mr Tajani.
 The best tribute to Ernest lluch and his memory is respecting its message -diàleg, in catalán-: can we offer all that opportunity, the Basque people?
 Moreover, one can, of course, express their opinion.
 (B5-0550 / 2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, to the Commission, on the political situation in Afghanistan and humanitarian aid.
 When I speak of organisation should also like to say that, given the enormous efforts undertaken by the European Union, it is logical that it is also the responsibility of the same.
 Secondly, you will see in the resolution the clear will of Parliament to base the security and defence policy on two pillars: balanced civil crisis management and, in the event of failure, the military management, since both pillars are complementary.
 - (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay which has been and also my responsibilities, I will try to make the speech I had prepared.
 These relations are will specifically at meetings between the North Atlantic Council and the copsi and at meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European candidate countries or allies.
 Consider, for example, what has happened in the Balkans, where it can be said that each has played its full role.
 Also in this period, we have kept fully informed on the United States of the progress under way under the European security and defence policy, which is a sine qua non for the same develops in harmony, as is the case at the moment.
 In the European Parliament was presented as the second edition of the European Union's annual report on human rights. On 13 December be organised in Paris a forum devoted to human rights.
 That policy, you will say, has no ambition to compete with the Atlantic Alliance, which today remains the basis of the collective defence of its members, or create a European army learning.
 On the other hand, although I mentioned the figure of 100 military, that does not mean that ambicionemos overcome the objective set in Helsinki, but we have a reserve in qualifications and in different specialities, which makes it possible to ensure that it will reach 60 000 men that correspond to the objective of the Council, beyond the operational conditions of their use.
 Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mentioning in short the in-depth political sense, approved by a large part of our public opinions, this new task, by means of which Europe is given a tool of political influence that he was lacking.
 We are now facing the problem of ensuring that, when we talk of consolidation of liberal democracy in Europe, we refer to the entire European continent, because this is the enlargement and the process of enlargement.
 We must include three tracks etc. should into a coherent whole: Community policies, CFSP, including the ESDP, and national measures of the Member States.
 Even with our laborious procedures of the Commission, we do not need a force of 60 000 soldiers to achieve our objectives.
 It is therefore urgently necessary to establish a solution of humanitarian aid.
 Although it is true that I do not agree with the cynics who say that Europe manages to a new game impracticable, it is true that the rapid reaction force will not clever in many situations.
 The EU should not develop a defence system with regular troops.
 Finally, I would like to express my group's concern over the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do everything in their power to reach a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of winter.
 To put it simply: where, when and how must act the European force of intervention.
 They understand the terrible consequences of these two months' Intifada: "270 deaths, mostly Palestinians, and nearly 10,000 injured, often baldados for life.
 This is also why his relentless efforts will serve to establish an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction extremely bleak.
 Secondly, contrary to what the previous speaker said, I do not know whether it would be possible or desirable for the European Union to do more than just before the conflict and the escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, in the period of transition in the United States.
 Mr President, in my speech I shall focus on dealing with Mrs Lalumière's report, which, to my mind, is well prepared and expresses clearly.
 There is a political concept and really there is still no common foreign and security policy.
 The EU has only a problem, namely that it has not so far been able to awaken the interest of the public by such measures, even though they are much more sustainable and effective.
 Mr President, then there is, of course, the budget; how this should be distributed.
 And I say that, despite the enormous amount of apparent guarantees that on this matter have arisen miraculously in recent days.
 We should work together and in a coordinated fashion. We should move towards a better European policy on procurement in order to have a more efficient defence industry which provides greater value for money.
 Even those who question the usefulness of the decision, for example, of creating the so-called euro-army, must repair in the important political dimension of this decision and its influence on the cohesion of the European Union.
 It has been very historic first the presence of a Minister of Defence in this House we have reserved the night sitting for the impression that is not too strong for our Members.
 For all of them, civil crisis management is a better way than pre-emptive military solutions.
 Do you wish to Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political Union with an undemocratic regime?
 Therefore, Europe is not going to be a new alliance, as I have heard mention in an argument informed so incomplete.
 I have received a motion for a resolution, pursuant to Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
 Faced with the scale of the task, was given to four committees and set an unprecedented procedure, with four reports in parallel.
 The whole of the measures proposed in the White Paper must agree to modernise and make the effective functioning of the Commission.
 Therefore, it would be appropriate if the reform is an opportunity to limit its intervention only in areas that do not involve expenditure.
 The differences of opinion that arose were not only of a political nature, but that reflect the cultural differences between the fifteen Member States.
 The new internal audit service, under the direct responsibility of you, Mr Kinnock, the Vice-President responsible for reform, will have as its main task the analysis of the functions and the internal control systems which exist within the Commission.
 It has been a pleasure to work together, and I believe that the process of dealing with a crucial reform of the Commission, which is essential for the future of the European Union, has had a depth and an additional wealth, thanks to the participation of us four.
 Can have expectations of relocation to other European institutions, implementation of committees of services in the national administrations or work in the private sector.
 In this way, our constitutional committee recalls its attachment to a strong executive Commission, independent, efficient, transparent and politically responsible.
 As the Committee on Budgets consider that the introduction of activity-based budgeting causes us problems because of the lack of visibility of expenditure and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament, as the budgetary authority.
 This will, of course, the good will of this Parliament to carry forward this reform with the Commission.
 Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their excellent work.
 This is disgraceful when we take into account that the EU itself is the first supporter of the modernisation of economic life.
 Mr President, despite the efforts of the rapporteurs to support the work of the Commission, to the recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts is not even a global and coherent response to a policy of government and not only for better management of the institution.
 This change of attitude should be reflected in the transparency of the administration.
 From my point of view, in the world there is a structure which magazine greater significance and fundamental: fifteen Member States and in the future twenty or more, an entire continent; the more industrialised currently part of the globe, late in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
 The change is never easy.
 In doing so, however, from the Socialist Group believe that the present functioning of the European public service is quite effective.
 The result is known, who has indicated the dedication and competence of many Members of the committee and its administration.
 Many thousands of applications of projects for more than a year now waiting for an evaluation.
 The debate, as we have seen, is not so much of principles, aims or opportunity of reform, as procedures, pace, timetable, possible problems or unintended consequences of its implementation.
 I should like to begin by informing the House that at its meeting this morning, as has been pointed out by Mr van Hulten, the College has adopted a draft interinstitutional agreement for the establishment of an advisory group on basic standards in public life, as provided for in the action 1 of the action programme of the White Paper.
 Furthermore, it is clear that such changes would only be possible with a modification of the Treaties.
 The central objective is to achieve a simplification, increase the transparency and strengthen budgetary principles, that is, in particular less exemption arrangements, fewer special rules incomprehensible and increase the efficiency and effectiveness in the budgetary procedure.
 It is simply very uneconomic for the Commission that according to the contracts for X costs will be reimbursed 20%, to costs and 30% and often get together and check the proof of very small sums.
 The next item is the report (A5-0337 / 2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of the European Union's relations with the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission in these relations (2000 / 2051 (INI)).
 The latter relate in particular to the NGOs.
 Of course, that is not enough, but with everything must be protected from the cartoons about the shortage of our development assistance.
 Returning to this now because it provides a good framework in itself.
 Mr President, I returned today of Mozambique, where the European Union has been responsible for a brilliant humanitarian aid following the disaster of the floods, but, again, reconstruction projects, which we have already allocated money, are lagging behind in anticipation of signatures in Brussels.
 Faced with these realities, the need for greater involvement and greater efficiency in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment is unavoidable.
 We now have a harmonised approach to drafting of country strategy papers and indicative programmes of cooperation in all developing countries.
 Furthermore, the creation of SEM failed to provide a solution to the continuing disparity between 8 voluminous administrative resources.
 . (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the reason I had a very special interest to be with you today in this debate on the first package in the European Parliament, is that you are going to look at three important texts, which are an essential first step in an issue that recent events have placed, unfortunately, on the front page of today.
 From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, this could afford, moreover, to discuss with the Member States, an agreement on the basis of the proposals tabled by you, and adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority, if necessary.
 The rapid and specialized treatment has had result in the two Erika packages and six motions has generated an enormous boost.
 The lesson that this Parliament must retain this morning is, undoubtedly, maritime legislation is throughout the world in a state of uncertainty and we have to begin the process of putting it into order.
 We must give a clear signal that in water and European ports are not going to tolerate vessels that do not comply with those standards.
 For small vessels, we adopted a position of compromise between the limit of 5 000 tonnes, raised by the IMO, and of the 600, proposed by the Commission.
 These data should be made available to the European authorities, and port state, as well as the public interest.
 The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, is bound to lead to the need for a Community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental contamination.
 In cooperation at local level have been included organisations for the protection of nature.
 Amending the directive in the direction of greater rigour in its application, a harmonization of the legislation, particularly as regards the selection of ships subject to inspection and the scope of the different types of inspection, is clearly positive.
 I would like to point out once again that there is no urgency, in which you insist.
 I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today, it is important that the Council and Parliament to reflect together on this.
 The black box, a black list and everything else we appear to be excellent ideas and we fully agree with them. I would, however, like to stress a few points.
 With regard to this catastrophic situation and anarchic of maritime transport, Europe has accepted the challenge, and eleven months after the Erika, the European Union will be in a position to announce that never any procedure has worked so quickly.
 It is clear to what extent the liberal logic is opposed to a high degree of safety at sea.
 Finally, regardless of the technical measures being taken, one of the largest sources of uncertainty will continue to exist is reequilibre, in the area of the Channel and the North Atlantic, the exponential growth in traffic strangulation of the North Sea ports.
 Credit if the current President of the Council who ordered the situation in their own country.
 Mr President, since the sinking of the oil tanker Erika have been submitted under political pressures a series of measures in order to increase the safety of ships in the sea.
 Greek ships collapsed without further, Mr Gayssot, without any storms.
 Thirdly, when we talk of this type of reports, it seems to me that it is becoming clear that not linking the relationship between, on the one hand, the supply of oil and, on the other, the fact that we are still using fossil fuel.
 Therefore, we finally have the political courage to our environmental ambitions.
 This means that, in this field more than in any other, our responsibility is huge, and that we must, in my view, silence any sign of self-respect institutional.
 For example, in Finland is of the utmost importance that Russia sign these agreements.
 It is the hardening of the requirements for the construction of ships oil tankers, improvement of standards for port controls and greater severity of rules for organisations of classification societies and inspection of ships, which is a consequence of this.
 Mr President, today we are debating maritime security based on three reports whose rapporteurs sincerely congratulate her.
 With regard to these three new proposals relating to maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs, who have shown in extremely short deadlines that Parliament is very determined to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, controls, the construction standards and intolerable that is that similar accidents reoccur.
 Madam President, in the recent past several marine accidents considerable consequences, especially those who were involved in the oil tankers, have shaken our continent.
 Mas 80% of accidents are connected with human error, but there are reasons to human error, which are social order.
 A parliamentarian or Parliament has used the word "traceability."
 The directive on port state control is designed to monitor compliance with international requirements and not to introduce new rules.
 Amendment No 18 introduces the port state control in relation to rest periods of seamen, while the implementation of the provisions relating to working hours of seafarers is already completely covered by Directive 99 / 95.
 I am happy to note that the rapporteur has introduced in Amendment No 21 a reference to the regime of assessment of the conditions and agree with the prospect proposal, but it needs to be adjusted to make it clearer.
 Amendment No 4 and part of 18 concerning point K "'are not acceptable.
 I can assure you that if a shipowner intends to include a ship in the register, following our proposal must thinking twice.
 The Commissioner spoke for 18 minutes, and during that time, mentioned dozens and dozens of articles and rejected the Commission's position.
 Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council in relation to a range of actions relating to the trans-European network of collection, of creation and dissemination of statistics on the maturity of goods and intra-European extra-comunitarios (EDICOM) (COM (2000) 0458 - C5-0401 / 2000 - 2000 / 0201 (COD)) (Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs)
 However, by withdrawing the resolution, I am convinced that, with a view to the Nice Council, Parliament would have done better to hear your voice dedicating a specific resolution and different from the subjects as important and difficult to the Intergovernmental Conference, instead of treating them in the field of a single resolution which includes all the other items on the agenda of the Council.
 (given that there were more than twelve Members stood up, the oral amendment was rejected) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 Report (A5-0337 / 2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of relations between the European Union and the developing countries, and the impact of the reform of the Commission on these relations (2000 / 2051 (INI))
 I voted against to register my protest at the fact that the European Union still fails to intervene as should also in this area.
 Despite that neither the proposal for an amendment of the existing directive on the control of vessels or the Watts report correspond to the real needs, give certain steps in the positive sense. That is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
 We regret that the Commission proposal has not taken up the idea of the creation of a genuine European monitoring body, along the lines of "coast guards" in the United States.
 . (EL) is a necessary condition for the safety of ships, for the protection of life at sea and environmental protection is the fight against the immunity enjoyed by the shipowners, the adoption of strict measures to control the situation of ships and the imposition of stringent penalties to shipping companies which violate the safety standards; similarly, improve the working conditions of workers in the Merchant Navy, and providing proper training, as well as guaranteeing organic compounds which respond to the growing needs of ships.
 The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, has done exactly the opposite.
 The sinking of the Erika, in December 1999, is at the origin of the emergence of the issue of maritime safety in the Community policy agenda and was under pressure from the European Parliament, as the Commission proposed, the texts we have voted today, almost a year after this sinister shipwreck.
 The current compensation funds have not been properly equipped and this has become more obvious in the case of the Braer disaster in the Shetland Islands fishing industry has not been adequately compensated for their losses.
 Madam President, I have already said that a few years ago I had the opportunity to travel.
 The rapporteur's proposals concerning the harmonisation at European level is entirely positive.
 This is an important point as it concerns the classification societies of ships.
 It would be a great success, for the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, Europe is not a rigid, jerarquizada, remote, but a flexible and Europe closer to the people, therefore based on respect for the national democracies.
 The increasingly open struggle for power between many Member States muddies the possibility of reaching a compromise.
 The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU to have efficient institutions.
 One week after the summit, I personally have hopes.
 Nor am I in favour of automatically linked to qualified majority voting and codecision and also of the opinion that any initiative to extend the powers of codecision must be taken on a case-by-case basis.
 To amend Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend qualified majority voting, which is currently in force in the Council for the trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
 In this way Parliament unrelated to the right of influence, silence as a tribute to the partidismos, national loyalties and governments and forgets its obligations towards the citizens.
 I also voted against a text which calls for the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the future Treaty adopted in Nice.
 It is a mistake to divide the Union into two groups, and that is why I cannot support the idea that a third of the Member States takes place at the helm.
 Its new role has stopped the neutrality of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Austria.
 In this report there are many things that the Group of the consevadores British can support, in particular the emphasis on the enlargement of the European Union.
 The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have supported the report on the creation of a common European policy in the field of security and defence.
 But also against the peoples of the European Union which will have to finance, in any case, the new expenditure of weapons that the report proposes and which does not even have the guarantee that the military forces are not used a day against themselves, in the name of "the maintenance of order".
 Equally serious is the claim that a state which does not wish to participate in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution will be participating states in that war.
 However, with military means out there can be no solution, because it does not remove the cause of the conflict or changing public opinion.
 · the military operations must be funded with a budget line Community and that Member States should contribute funds even if they did not wish to participate in the operations (paragraphs 49 and 50).
 Instead, the EU would suit accounts that are the priorities of the Petersberg tasks and address the attention towards humanitarian and civilian options.
 I support this report by my colleague Mrs Theorin.
 But there is no mention of the needs of this category to give way to the demand for a tax deducibilidad household services and a "adaptation of prices and costs to the financial possibilities of individuals'.
 In reality, it is extraordinary that in the 21st century we have to recommend that the Member States should guarantee for domestic workers the right to social security and a proper retirement.
 For many young people, its first contact with the labour market can be a undeclared work.
 What is more serious is when it comes to women from distant countries, which have taken up this type of work by necessity and which have no other means of earning a living on a lasting basis.
 The reform of the Commission will be judged by the facts, hence the need for regular monitoring reports presented during the entire period of the duration of the programme and the importance of full account waited for December 2002.
 In the recent past, various scandals and failures, concluded in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
 In conclusion, I consider it essential to remember that through this reform, which is essential for the future, we look at the same time more rigorous and more transparency on the part of the Commission in its day-to-day management, but also a greater sense of responsibility for its part, within the strict framework of its competences.
 Also the Conservatives support the statement in paragraph 7 of the report that it should ensure democratic control and allowing operating the system of the three pillars.
 (The sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
 We have received the information - and I would like to add immediately that I cannot creerla at all - that the Council President and Head of the French State is going to appear here tomorrow only 30 minutes to speak.
 Therefore, it seems to me that we must exclude that we can have a well-considered position and argued.
 Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
 During the night work has been done in both these texts as in the figures concerning the distribution of votes in the Council and the distribution of seats in Parliament.
 Madam President, I would urge that we do not see the agenda this report by Mr de Roo, because, in addition to being very well drafted, at the last Council of Environment of the French Presidency, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday of next week, it is planned to prepare a common position on this matter.
 Thank you, Mr Parish.
 At meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, in his capacity as President, sits there and actually smoked.
 The political basis is clear: to harmonise the market with a high level of public health and consumer protection on the basis of the existing regulations as well as the development of scientific knowledge.
 Is at stake their quality and concept of life, in which the protection of health is a very significant weight.
 This rule can also be applied to all drugs of fun but dangerous, if no one else that the consumer can be affected.
 Recently in the United States they have earned trials against tobacco multinationals and by poison lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.
 We believe that everything possible and consistently is to put an end to the export of cigarettes are prohibited in the EU for health reasons.
 Instead of learning the lessons of the failure in Luxembourg on 9 October, we insist on a legally indefensible.
 I have studied carefully what the Commissioner said to my colleague Mr Hume: "cannot be massive loss of jobs in this sector.
 It is the Parliament and the Council to adopt this proposal for a directive and examined, among other things, the appropriate legal basis for this.
 Mr Maaten and others, there is a danger that, if this Parliament and the Council accept the restrictive interpretation which propose the leader of the European People's Party and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this Parliament, the Council and the Community institutions as a whole would be tying our hands to the legislative development of the Community institutions, which is so important for the development of Community law.
 The weak point of this proposal is that lays great stress on the promotion of free competition.
 In conclusion, since the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Parliament has powers of coordination on environmental issues and consumer protection, and collaborate closely, of course, with the Council and the Commission in this field.
 In reality, this has nothing to do with tobacco, but that the judgment of the European Court of Justice could have also been dictated to ban the advertising of alcohol or the advertising of chocolate because, of course, sugar may also be harmful to health.
 I simply do not understand that a majority of this Parliament wishes to propose to relax the rules relating to the export more than proposed by the governments of the Member States - governments also representing the many industries that refers.
 It is a proven fact that 80% of smokers to stop, but in the tobacco sector, encourages very few policies to help these people to stop smoking.
 If we insist on the other countries what levels of public health must set spreading to exports our reasonable proposals for the internal market, we will be jeopardising all the good work done by Mr Maaten.
 We are in favour of a method of evidence is recognized in all the EU countries, to be carried out in a particular country in a laboratory tests recognised.
 Today is openly acknowledge the effects on health of tobacco consumption, and both legislators as a public opinion share the feeling that the time has come to adopt strict rules and regulations in this area.
 Consequently, the Community rules encajarán perfectly in future international agreements, thereby avoiding the risk of barriers to trade and while at the same time strengthening the protection of consumers and guaranteeing a high level of health protection.
 It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives in its entirety in the first report of the Commission.
 As regards the laboratory tests, the amendment relating to the approval of evidence is superfluous, since other Article already provides for the movement of goods which comply with the provisions of the directive.
 Madam President, this report is not complications: today, the directives on summer-time are only five years in force, and then have to come back to Parliament for its renewal.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the provisions on summer-time, that there are under discussion, is a good proposal.
 Therefore, I believe that we in this House should not take too much time on this issue, because the Member States, as well as the population, have already accepted in large measure the regulation of summer time and this has been recognised as part of our annual rate.
 In my opinion, it is appropriate that issues relating to slots and with the implementation of the provisions of the summer time left, according to the proposal, in the field of decision-making of the Member States.
 It would be more justified that summertime money at the end of September, some six months of its inception.
 We can accept the presentation of suitable proposals on the basis of the conclusions of the report by 2007 referred to in Article 5.
 It is clear that cannot be accepted interventions in the human germ line.
 Indeed, I believe that an ethics committee in the working people who does this work as main profession, we can grant a slightly longer term, but on the authorities should exercise a certain pressure of time to get to work.
 These groups should remain within the scope of the directive.
 But I am also glad that we have managed to take a cerrojazo therapy.
 I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the contrary positions.
 These programmes are linked to the fight against cancer, with the prevention of AIDS, the prevention of drug addiction and the promotion of health; and its adjournment would mean the end of projects and the work of the nets that are created for this purpose.
 It is very good to be able to prepare the ground, a priori, so that, in the event that it is necessary to make a second reading, be very close to the point at which decisions are taken.
 Furthermore, we must bear in mind that both promotion and prevention and monitoring are becoming increasingly important and, therefore, we should give them more budgets and give them more importance.
 Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what direction the developing European policy in the field of public health.
 I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
 In the European Union is currently produces the paradox that the abolition of internal borders for the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must live with the maintenance of 15 borders in the fields of police and judicial, criminal that Member States in eliminating difficulties.
 To conclude, the initiative represents a significant step forward in the creation of a European judicial area, albeit partial and limited, but responds to the real needs of a huge volume of European citizens that, so far, have been virtually helpless when they are victims of crime outside the territory of their habitual residence.
 What we have asked for this group of people?
 At the same time we must guarantee a special training professionals who will be in charge of direct contact with the victims.
 Victims must not become people doubly penalised, firstly because of a crime and then by the fault of the system.
 Furthermore, it is important in this respect to be informed in a discreet professional and relatives, i.e. to the victim's family, the facts if they wish to, and that they can count on the necessary aid, so that we do not have to know all through the press.
 This applies whatever the offence has been committed.
 Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we must abandon the basic principle that human beings should always take responsibility for their actions.
 In other cases could be obtained information that is required in a language of the Union which is not their own.
 I am very pleased with the positive response of Parliament before the first text on such an important issue, so that the area of freedom, security and justice that we are gradually building can give our fellow citizens support in situations which are often difficult to bear.
 Vote on request for urgent procedure
 (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
 In this way, in the night of 23 and 24 November we agreed with the Council on the main points of a budget that is not brilliant though it is reasonable.
 That is why the Commission proposed a revision by EUR 300 million to what was tooth and nail for the Council.
 But I also know from conversations that is even more difficult to ask a Council position negotiable, to obtain a mandate and ensure that the pure selfishness will result in a pan-European decision more or less reasonable and acceptable.
 I hope that the work on a common recruitment office, as stated in the German modern, namely a European authority of recruitment, really move forward so that we can overcome together the problems that will arise in the coming years to all the institutions - the Council and the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions -, namely the need for staff in the coming years.
 The Council refuses to carry out this revision now - that we should have the figures – and I want to prevent: using the flexibility instrument two years running, two consecutive years - in fact, in less than fifteen months, and the first of them at least six months of the adoption of the perspectivas- financially hurting the flexibility instrument because prevents replenishment and its possible accumulation, which is scheduled to a height of 600 million.
 This amount so important that responds to the existence of very high needs in 2001, can be financed mainly thanks to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to a value of EUR 200 million.
 In view of this new element, the Council has voted at second reading a budget increased by 2.5%.
 Finally, before you arrange for the definitive adoption of this budget, to underline the commitment of the Council in respect certain basic budgetary rules, in the field of implementation of appropriations in reserve, legal basis and the classification of expenditure.
 And, unlike in Nice, I believe that the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission in general are very satisfied with the result.
 Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of new sick cows of BSE was also necessary to act immediately in the budgetary field, in particular for the protection of health, consumer protection and also for aid to farmers affected by this situation.
 In addition, the Council has set for the framework programme of aid to the reconstruction of the Western Balkans a multiannual indicative amount, of course, which is compatible with the financial perspective.
 With a great deal of effort, we obtained a couple of millions of euros.
 I should like to thank Mrs Haug.
 Think, then, that this 1% of the budget of the European Union is very well spent.
 You said, if I have understood correctly, that we should not use the reserve, because this was an infringement of the rules.
 I believe that we have seen very positive things together with many others I shall not mention now due to the pressure of time.
 Despite that expenditure on agriculture, which represent almost half of the total budget, are increasing, having taken into account the letter of amendment, in more than 5%, the total increase of the budget is only 3.5%.
 We see the great danger that, in the coming years, increase the confrontation between MEDA, projects of countries bordering on the Mediterranean and the Balkans, although we all know that there are urgently needed money.
 Satisfied have overcome the difficulties that they did so close the path towards the objective of fulfilling the commitments made in Helsinki with the candidate countries without undermining the Union, to enable the Europe of tomorrow that it continues to operate effectively.
 These are real, although it does not go as far as the presidency - which has shown, and I stress, at national level, a great deal of transparency, we would have liked.
 It has provided for a new legal basis for the statute for European political parties and Parliament being granted the status of institutional plaintiff provided for in Article 230 of the Treaty.
 These last few weeks have achieved three major achievements.
 This is the meaning of the declaration adopted at Nice and the deliberations to coordinate at European level the fight against doping.
 Between threats, is, as you all know, global warming.
 Furthermore, in Nice, the European Union has established the permanent bodies needed to define and run a common foreign and security policy: a political and security committee, a military committee and a European state.
 For this cooperation, for their support and also for its reception, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the French Presidency thank you.
 In these areas, in fact, the Conference has failed due to the intransigence of certain Member States. In this connection, I feel deep disappointment, not only by the short-term consequences, but by the spirit of deadlock, of closure, incomprehension transpires that this position.
 We must pay heartfelt tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt appreciates that has been beaten to the bottom in the name of a fairer presence of accession states and to become less unreasonable, although it is still too high, the threshold of qualified majority. In this way, has confirmed the great historic role in Belgium in the European Union.
 We now need to examine carefully the text in Parliament.
 I would point out, incidentally, Mr President of the European Council, that expenditure the taxpayers.
 And I see it as a failure, not only in connection with the declared ambition of the European Union to change the institutions to be able to welcome new members correctly to improving the efficiency of the European Union, but also a failure in relation to another important objective, which perhaps has been mentioned very little, bringing the European Union and the citizens.
 The good questions are for us the who asked the impressive human tide that, since the whole of Europe, has convergido in Nice on the eve of the summit.
 First, the Member States have signed hastily and teargas the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
 (Applause)
 My group is disappointed by this Treaty and concerned about the future which we can all take, so we shall oppose him with all our strength.
 Mr President, you have the floor.
 Finally, I would say to Mr Hager that the instrument of closer cooperation is, in my opinion, a useful tool to enable Europe to have a dynamic and deliver the way, as I said a few moments ago, I believe, Mr.
 Mr President, I would like to know whether the powers of the European Parliament on summer-time is a new conquest of Nice.
 Let demoralised so far by the complexity of clinical trials, laboratories, perhaps in the will expressed by both States and by our Assembly, the value of developing the market for paediatric medicines, even if it does not have the size enough to allow the recovery of investment!
 . Is it necessary to amend the change of summer time, which was established during the oil crisis, in order to save energy, which had been extended until 2001?
 It is not always the protection of the situation of victims in criminal proceedings is due.
 As a result, many travellers and tourists will benefit from this European initiative.
 Mr President, only intervene to welcome the President of the Commission, who is here, and the Presidency of the Council that is looming, and to stress that, probably, has never been expressed in this Parliament a unanimity as this on the results of a summit.
 That works is that, in six months, under the leadership of the French Presidency, has ended, I believe, in spite of everything, for your work on six key chapters.
 However, my greatest fear is that Great Britain, France and Germany can now subvert the delicate balance created between states of different sizes and between the institutions over several decades.
 It is difficult to understand how the Nice decisions could facilitate the enlargement of the EU.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I can be very brief.
 For all this, I can only draw the consequence of that when we vote on the Treaty of Nice, I am going to vote no.
 Mr President, the most important result of Nice was, in spite of everything, signed a treaty, so that it is now possible to space to the candidate countries.
 The real winners of this conference are, Mr Blair and Mr Aznar "no" Europe.
 Then, forget Nice, look at what comes later, and allow me to my hope fed with the draft Convention very moved by Belgium for your Presidency, because it has been proved, it must be clean slate, there needs to be a change of method, we must speed up the story: 2004 is too late, is too far away, it is too dangerous.
 Instead, the spirit of Nice has been to ask how we can block, how can we intergubernamentalizar, how can you praise one at home as a defender of national interests instead of working for the European Union to progress.
 After Amsterdam and Nice, we have a Europe of principalities, a Europe of national administrations and not the Europe of the political unification.
 We cannot continue to tackle the lack of decision-making by qualified majority in the essential questions.
 It is true - parafrasearé Mr Bayrou - I am this seat since this morning; at the outset, accompanying the President of the Republic, and later, personally, and llueven criticisms, which, in my view, are friendly moderate, but that, nevertheless, still criticism.
 Indeed, we must not forget that this is the first time since 1957, to reform, which is the model.
 We are in constitutional systems, and the powers cannot be confused.
 Thank you very much, Minister.
 But neither has been incorporated into the Treaties and there has been a reference to the Charter in paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
 Finally, there are some positive aspects: the new version of Article 7 of the Treaty; the article concerning the political parties and their status; the right of this Parliament to demand to the other institutions before the Court of Justice: this is also an important factor of political control; the new formula for the European Commission to include the so-called 'lex Prodi "in the Treaty, to strengthen the President and the new composition of the Commission: reasonable compromise which I accept and will work with the time; and, as pointed out by my colleague Mr Tsatsos, is the way forward in the future.
 Mr President, we have already made a rigorous evaluation of what happened in Nice, but we should remember that the Nice summit began with an agenda very limited.
 Look at things: it has not been included in the work of the Treaty the Charter, nor even a comment.
 We want to give the Heads of Government that we know how to do better.
 Despite the blows of chest that the French Government has given this morning, the IGC frankly not been completed.
 Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French Presidency during this debate, because it is not present. I understand that President Chirac, Mr.
 Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that the Intergovernmental Conference has been outdated.
 2001 budget (continuation)
 However, this does not mean that it could not have done something more and better. I would like to divide the two areas.
 This maxim obliges the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as should make any authority.
 With the vote following this debate ends the long and complex process of approval of the budget of the European Union for 2001.
 That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis resorting to Article 272; we have maintained the financial perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
 Let me simply say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have not been without footballs this team and intends to continue playing until we get the appropriate outcome.
 We do not want in the resolution Colom already included a proposal for revision for next year, because we want to wait for the assessment of the World Bank, but we share his criticism that this way of resolving the financial insufficiency in category 4 distorts the multiannual character of the major external objectives of the Union and the definition of the financial perspective.
 For this to be possible, we must establish priorities.
 Only in this way will be properly and correct the money which our fellow citizens are at our disposal.
 If we estimate the supplementary budget, which hopefully will then almost 8% while in all other fields, whether it is the policy of training, internal policy, including research, foreign policy, the administration, aid for preadhesión- experienced in total only a growth rate of 1.1%.
 And as cooperation is very positive, in the next supplementary budget, back in January, we will have the opportunity to proseguirla.
 We also want to criticise yet unregulated relations between Russia and the Baltic States.
 We are following with great interest the development of society and the Russian domestic policy.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy towards Russia represents the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
 Even if President Putin assured the democratic development of his country, he is not automatically a guarantor of a stable and democratic Russia. The democratic order is not yet a reality experienced in Russia.
 We must not let ourselves be insidious on our part, but that we must build the Europe of economic cooperation.
 As far as the Caucasus is concerned, Mr Van Orden is absolutely right.
 Anyone who looks at Russia from outside and receives isolated impressions of the country and Russian partners runs the risk of selectively declare this as the reality of the country which fits in their image of Russia.
 In the political field, the common strategy towards Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and create a permanent mechanism.
 I would like to stress the seriousness of Russia constitute a political union with Belarus.
 Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
 In this respect, during the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as Parliament will know, launched a wide-ranging dialogue on energy.
 I am very hopeful personally to visit Kaliningrad in the first part of next year and not just because Immanuel Kant spend their whole lives in that city.
 I congratulate the honourable Member once again for his excellent report on an extremely important issue, that in the coming years we will refer again and again I am sure in this Parliament.
 You placed in a very difficult position.
 Mr President, I would like to say that this debate is very necessary since the BSE crisis has a huge impact on feedingstuffs, on the production and import of feedingstuffs.
 The Council has expressed its concern in many meetings with Russia, at all levels, in particular to make it think again to excessive use of force and to avoid a possible extension of the conflict, to proceed to independent inquiries and effective on violations of human rights, to support at the OSCE assistance group in fulfilling its mission and, finally, to ensure the transport of humanitarian aid.
 Mr President, on a point of order. It is customary in this House that the questions that cannot be answered orally adequately later should be answered in writing.
 (Interruption from Mr Posselt)
 This directive is of 1992.
 In this respect we will have to work.
 These groups are obviously left on the sidelines of this new proposal.
 . (FR) The presidency and several Member States have already received letters from the European Committee on sugar manufacturers concerning the Commission's proposal, which will take account in its deliberations.
 Question No 6 by (H-0886 / 00):
 Firstly, I must say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet replied to the question by Mr Korakas.
 Now, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to move forward.
 More specifically, how has met the representative of the Presidency, in this case the French ambassador in Algeria, with Mr.
 We welcome the proposed provisions in this regard from the preparatory committee and decided by the General Assembly on the way of accreditation of non-governmental organisations, the preparatory process and the special session in September 2001.
 The cooperation includes several references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
 As the Council was emphasized by the honourable Member in her reply, the process of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters will best protect the rights of individuals.
 I would like to push him a little more.
 In particular, guarantees the political control and strategic direction of a military operation of crisis management.
 I should simply like to remind you that the system of the Treaty makes a difference in treatment between charges and indirect taxes, in which harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market - Article 93 - and approximation, provided for in Article 94, of laws that impact directly on the establishment and the functioning of the common market, including those relating to direct taxation.
 We see few words in these three sectors.
 If it remains the model of behaviour that in case of doubt all fighting all this could do explode the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe based on regional cooperation.
 Ultimately, we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, also a cooperation on both sides.
 Mr President, our group supports the work carried out by Mr Baltas in connection with the report on the viability of the negotiation of the stabilisation and association agreement with the Republic of Croatia.
 Mr President, during the years when I was President of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to accompany many Croats in its efforts towards freedom and prosperity which they, like other peoples of our continent, identifying with their integration into the European institutions.
 On the basis of the results obtained by Croatia this year, I have to say that I am confident that we will be able to reach a rapid pace.
 This is, of course, our criterion and the speed with which we have brought our policy towards Croatia in recent months confirms that.
 We have an obligation to Croatia to give his government and its people all kinds of aid in the coming years and we are deeply grateful for your wise advice in order to ensure that we follow this path.
 It is incomprehensible that the Laskar Jihad had the opportunity to go to the Moluccas this spring with thousands of supporters to exacerbate the conflict.
 In Timor, the militias are blocking the return of refugees and the people who provide the aid are besieged.
 On behalf of the Committee on Industry, I will confine myself to three points.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work she has done.
 It is not the only country in which this happens.
 Continuing violence in the Moluccas, in Aceh in Irian Jaya causes a lot of pain and suffering for the people.
 Tomorrow, we welcome here the ceremony of the award of the Sakharov Prize.
 According to the most recent reports of arrivals Indonesian archipelago, is the question of whether the situation seems even more serious, yes, more precarious, for President Wahid and serves the enemies which the rapporteur analyses.
 If we want to help Indonesia, must now act with money and facts and not just words.
 I believe that the report is extremely valuable to shed light on what has been happening.
 It is clear that the difficulties of Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
 The protection of the Communities' financial interests
 We must finally remove the obstacles to its independent activity, especially in the recruitment of staff and in its structure.
 That is why the Commission must finally fulfil through a process of internal reforms your announcement that will not tolerate the fraud and that each of them will be pursued consistently.
 I believe that this should be exactly the consequence of Nice.
 We would like to see the Member States opened negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in criminal matters, however, we do not want to put our countries to a Federal Prosecutor Community.
 I would also like to know why yesterday, was delayed until after the Danish referendum on the euro, the publication of the Commission document on this matter.
 I have tabled an amendment which would cite the names of these countries, because it is high time that this is done to shame them.
 I am sure that OLAF has an interest in shape in a transparent manner the selection of the tables senior managers.
 However, we in the European Parliament must be careful not to see the beam in our own eye for being so focused to see motes in the alien: that of the Commission.
 We are trying to put out a fire and suffocate ourselves with the smoke.
 And nobody can understand, including me.
 With a view to achieving this aim fully, I would like to highlight four questions which I consider to be fundamental in the work of the authority of budgetary control.
 The Treaty is a problem for Parliament itself.
 Commissioner, it is worrying that has explicitly to draw the Commission's attention to respect for the rights of Members as guardian of the Treaties.
 They relate to a number of guidelines for the action that the Committee on Budgetary Control can be found when problems in several areas, including those of recommending to the Committee on Budgets to freeze or reduce the amount of the appropriations intended for the items in question in the budget for the coming financial year; not to authorise transfers of appropriations which involve the increase in appropriations affected for a certain period until we have completed internal investigations; additional to ask the President of the Commission to demand the resignation of any Commissioner affected by the serious problems discovered: something like a Caesarian operation of the EU.
 The report requires detailed become inventories of operational activities, a strict monitoring of budget lines and irregularities internal as well as an assessment of the results on the part of the Commission.
 Commissioner, the starting point for the transmission of information to the European Parliament is the EC Treaty and not the interinstitutional agreement.
 But the result of this common position would be, if not amended, not only at the end that we would not have a level playing field with regard to America, but even within Europe.
 I do not know why it should not be achieved in the present case, as has been achieved for all the other directives, reaching the end of a compromise.
 It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
 The first amendment relates to Article 4, which stipulates what has to be the authority responsible for supervising the supply.
 We now have a proposal which would cause difficulties, in search of the Court, possible disputes at a delicate moment of an agreement.
 In the UK the regulation of takeover bids through the voluntary code of practice administered by the group responsible for takeover bids has produced very good results: a good example here of a pragmatic approach an extremely complex issue where legislation would be less appropriate.
 But, more than that, it is better that we can manage the Lisbon programme of creating a competitive European economy and dynamic.
 In the European Parliament, what we must do is to regulate a minimum way at European level the major areas which cause tensions in the procurement law, for example, the presidency towards shareholders, large shareholders against small companies or against capital market.
 Some amendments tabled by Parliament to further improve the text of the common position of the Council. As a result, its points focus attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and urge a more rapid transformation of the directive.
 After all, it is not proven in any way that the proposed definition of fair price is better than any other, since different definitions used at the moment in the Member States are all very well.
 The debate is closed.
 Furthermore, it recognises the artist a right of information to be informed of their rights within a period of up to three years before traders professionals of works of art, which is sensible, because they have to wear the accounts of purchases and sales.
 Consequently, we must address the Austrian legislator and not attack the European legislator that only creates positive framework conditions for artists and auction houses.
 Furthermore, the issue we are dealing with, the need for a common position is all the greater because only a common position will enable the European Union to exert influence at international level to defend the interests of authors at global level.
 I trust in the wisdom and foresight to this House.
 In Germany, for example, of 7,000 artists who transferred their rights in 1998 274 only, in fact, obtained any money for it and 40% of the droit de suite was intended to cover the costs for collecting the sum.
 In short, we need harmonisation of this type in this sector.
 Had already been rejected at first reading a similar amendment.
 They thought that the translations could continue despite this very tight timetable and difficult.
 However, we have reached a point where, unfortunately, we can no longer postpone this issue any further.
 Our committee proposes that this be brought forward a year.
 This Parliament is, of course, in favour of those values and will continue to defend them.
 The technology and the development of the markets will change in any case.
 There is no legal basis enabling us to exclude competition in such cases.
 A reduction of universal services - the very essence of the sector of the postal service - up to 50 grams seriously undermines the ability of the national postal service provision of a universal service at an affordable price for everyone, irrespective of where they live.
 I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British Post Office.
 We have turned the safety net for users of the postal service in a hamaca then they will sit where large companies of postal services to continue with what they have always done.
 I am very pleased that this notion of special services intended to put new technologies outside the scope of universal service and the reserved sector of the weight limit of 50 grs. proposed to 150 grs.
 We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, and we will not tolerate a situation of that kind.
 For this reason, the European Commission has not proposed the total liberalisation of postal services in the second phase.
 This is something that I wish the other European countries.
 In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein was recently in relation to the French its position anti-liberal, or at least this appeared in the holder of a newspaper.
 In this sense, I could say something Spain which has created this fund and has used the same, and that to talk about the legal bases that random sample the Fund, the virtual criteria in terms of its composition and the discretionary guarantees of its application.
 And I hope that, tomorrow, we vote in favour of the amendment by Mr Atkins or Mr Sterckx because otherwise I shall be forced to vote against this report.
 Royal Mail is in competition and I shared the letters in Malmö, Sweden.
 Madam President, Commissioner, what we learned from the debate, or rather the controversy raised by Commissioner Bolkestein in their search for a liberalisation of postal services in the absence of any assessment of the first stage and violating the rules laid down by this directive? using progressive terms and value, such as modernisation, liberalisation, monitoring of technological development, is a regression of the social quality of a country.
 The protection provided for universal services through a compensation fund which enable us to use private profits public services cannot be permanent.
 These limits and delays have contributed to a debate in which are often confuse the ends with the instruments.
 Madam President, on this matter, we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
 Madam President, allow me first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, because, of course, has done a complicated work, difficult, where he had to try to strike a balance between proposals, positions and points of departure and arrival completely different.
 I fear that the effect will be that the current monopolies can further strengthen its position at the taxpayers' expense and to raise the standard for the new aspirants.
 I am also pleased to see that our liberal friends are the continent by setting an example to the British Liberals.
 I certainly accept that the concept of liberalisation per se has nothing wrong and that can be beneficial to consumers.
 Justified, as it is included in the logic of the founding Treaties of the European Union, which put forward the completion of the internal market for the free movement of goods and services in an environment of competition.
 Universal service is the cornerstone of Community policy in this area and all we do is designed to create the right conditions for improvement.
 Special services are another very important areas in which must be promoted innovation and modernisation.
 He said that the opening up to competition of almost all of the postal market seems inevitable before the end of the decade.
 I am in favour of cast-iron guarantees that there is always protect the universal service obligations.
 That is why I cannot remain silent and we shall stay silent while the sector ’ s future is threatened by the inability of properly overcome the challenges we all set in Lisbon.
 Thank you, Mr Simpson.
 However, I must point out that this common organisation of the markets has as its primary objective the guarantee of access to the Community market for their products.
 It is absolutely necessary to find, over and above the EUR 300 tariff preference, a means to enable them to effective access to the quota C and a subsequent to assess the impact of the system in these producers.
 For example, we cannot fail to express our concern about the banana production in certain ACP countries, in the small countries producers in the West Indies and in some countries in West Africa which have been traditional suppliers in the banana market with which we have commitments which we must not forget.
 I therefore ask that this report will be supported in its entirety by the Members of this House, as it was in the Committee on Agriculture.
 While the United States first condemn the reference periods historic, and now pursue their own historical reference periods.
 There are powerful interests, especially those of the Americans, who are not family-based of bananas, but who have invested capital in American business.
 Sometimes it seems as if the Commission, in the proposed deregulation in trade and agricultural production at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.
 It is a pity that the Commission and the Council in a solution which could seriously compromising this production, particularly after 2006.
 The successive opinions of the WTO does not say that we cannot give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers.
 Thus, the transitional period should be almost fifteen years and never below ten and compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of the production of the outermost regions, so that they too must include a help entities that market bananas produced there.
 I hope that today will listen to our arguments, because this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, albeit EUR 300, may prove to be rather pointless at the facts as ACP producers will be hot-rolled steel system for the so-called "by order of arrival."
 Votes
 (Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
 The Commission rejects the remaining amendments.
 Before the vote:
 (Parliament adopted the oral amendment)
 Report (A5-0376 / 2000) by Mrs Morgan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the reform of institutions and procedures of budgetary control (2000 / 2008 (INI))
 The majority of smokers are not familiar with all the risks or bear all the costs of its choice.
 During the already 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always kept to this rule.
 I fear that their hopes will be in vain.
 This is our last ditch attempt to put labels on cigarette packets and images that reflect the true cost of tobacco consumption.
 Lehne report (A5-0368 / 2000)
 I believe that this trial is still correct and relevant and, consequently, I have voted against the report in its entirety.
 With good reason, the Committee on Legal Affairs persists in refusing to a ceiling and a minimum percentage of less than 7%.
 By voting against this directive, my group wishes to table a warning policy for which we in Europe do not worry about establishing unnecessary rules.
 If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin of decades, how can we give a minimal confidence in Mr Putin, the murderers of the Chechen people, the godfather of various mafia, which insists on settle all kinds of opposition, civil society, political parties (trade unions), in order to strengthen their personal power?
 True that Indonesia would not deserve this intensification of relations, because in recent years the rulers of this country does not exactly excelled either by a great democracy or by great merits; however, we need to be concerned about the Indonesian citizens and for this reason, I welcome the intensification of relations and these subsidies.
 The unit should only deal with the crimes committed by Community employees.
 The Theato report on the fight against fraud to uncover the European Central Bank, without doubt better to prove its famous independence, has not seen fit to enter into the agreement on the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
 That concludes the explanations of vote.
 Or we belong to a club or does not belong, and it is especially important that we recognise this principle.
 Ladies and gentlemen, we do not add to the change of name.
 The tariff only system is, however, an important element, which guarantees the balance of the Commission proposal and is an important basis for being able to achieve some progress in the Council.
 The national and regional programmes for the promotion of rural development also include support for the marketing of these bananas.
 Europe and the United States work in close cooperation in defence of the values we share.
 We hope that it will be talking about a future new WTO round, as well as on the consequences of this round to the wide range of new bilateral trade initiatives that are being discussed by the American hemisphere.
 As has rightly said, transatlantic relations have intensified dramatically in the last ten years - especially, it is true, by the United States, thanks to President Clinton, but I think that history will note that these new relations has also helped Europe, which has played a key role in their development, through the 1990 transatlantic declaration and through the new transatlantic agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
 In short, it will be important to achieve a change of direction and draw up a genuine transatlantic agenda for the year 2001.
 To conclude, I will refer to the Dominican Republic, which says that it was assumed that the WTO should become an impartial arbiter of common rules, in which countries could learn to act according to the rules.
 Secondly, although we cannot rejoice at the decline of the Communist sham, the collapse of the Soviet Union left one superpower, the United States of America.
 I know that the Commissioner has a good and very constructive dialogue with Parliament and the committees which have some connection with these issues.
 The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
 These objectives, the primary and secondary importance, will be the litmus test with which they have to judge the concrete proposals put forward by the Commission.
 It is well known that such a solution -instalación in one country with the possibility of providing services throughout the Union could make an avalanche in those countries with lower taxation.
 Thus, in 1992 an agreement, then as a minimum harmonisation, according to which the standard VAT rate could not be below 15% and the Member States had the power to implement one or more not rates below 5%, in this case with derogations.
 We have asked the European Commission to ensure that there are no distortions of the market and that this report on the results to the Council and Parliament.
 In short, the aim of this proposal is correct, but the method is outrageous and if we really want to promote the e-economy in Europe, a proper signal would be to arrange a zero rate of VAT for our companies operating through the network instead try to impose our problems to others.
 In order to meet the requirements of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, we will need to adopt any measures to restrict it.
 The only case in which up until now have not been collects no tax is of benefits that have been carried out in the European Union from a third country.
 Positive discrimination of air transport must stop.
 The firms of other countries, outside the Community, not pay taxes.
 CDs are not so archaic and it would be necessary to impose a tax, while the programmes circulating on the Internet would fall outside the imposition of a rate.
 However, the proposed solution is destined to be technically unworkable and to create restrictions to the promotion of transactions on the Internet in the Union, precisely when all anticipate its expansion.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing edge and capacity.
 We should be looking for ways to promote electronic commerce and not devise new forms of taxing it.
 We Liberals say that it is necessary to the lowest possible state.
 The Primarolo group has drawn up a simple rules, it is necessary to apply.
 As objection, the group that I represent in this House believes that we should address the fact that, while the newspapers are usually reduced rates of VAT, this reduction is not applicable to the newspapers electronically.
 The taxation of kerosene can only be introducing, therefore, by means of an international consensus which will enable us to guarantee equality of competition.
 I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthens one of the key arguments I made in my report on behalf of the Committee on Transport and which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that, given that it is certainly politically difficult to reach an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we should seek alternative tools to achieve the same effect, including one rate for emissions.
 In reality, the industry pays 100% of its infrastructure costs through the rates of air traffic control in 1998 and airport, which amounted to a total of $4 billion; unlike other means of transport, such as rail and road, which are still heavily subsidised.
 The current situation is not favourable.
 In this context, it has to be said, unfortunately, that emissions from air traffic are an issue which, although not percentage is too large, much of which is increasing and, therefore, we should not desdeñarlo.
 The plan will be detrimental to the development of SMEs, both inside and outside the Union, especially in view of the proposal to reduce the exemption threshold for prohibitively under the level of turnover of EUR 40 000 per year.
 If we are too greedy for tackling the issue before us, we are putting at risk the really important future of electronic commerce in Europe.
 The starting point of the suppliers outside the Community that supply to customers within the Community should only be registered in a place cannot bring about a shift of tax revenue between Member States.
 Bearing in mind that the debate within the Council continue and the desire of the Commission to settle the issue of VAT appropriately and e-commerce in the short term, I think that the best thing at the moment is not formally accept the amendment proposals by Parliament, but to make them a reality as far as possible through negotiations within the Council.
 For this reason, I cannot accept the proposed amendments.
 Thank you, Commissioner, for all dossiers referred to this week.
 For its part, only three months after the accident, the Commission took their responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures, which the European Parliament fully endorsed the past 30 November.
 In fact, with more than fifteen directives or regulations in force, there is an urgent need to harmonise practices and get a better grip on the application of Community rules, in order to avoid significant differences and unacceptable in the field of maritime safety which might arise within the Union.
 Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the field of maritime safety.
 I would like to remind you that in air safety compensation that apply in the European area and in the domain of American, do not amount to the same amounts which those applied in other countries.
 Secondly, I say to the honourable Member that anyone could have the ability to confiscate or freeze funds of a specific company for compensating damage or others, is the French courts, which could establish responsibilities beyond the planned according to objective criteria that the current international regulations on pollution by hydrocarbons.
 The Commission considers that these provisions are going in the right direction towards the establishment of fair charging systems, which also gives incentives for a more rational and efficient use of the road network.
 As a result of the criticisms made, particularly in Ireland and France, we have changed the extent and now the British Chancellor of the Exchequer he has taken a turn for the different: now being presented as a tax on the right of use for all, including the British lorry drivers.
 I am committed to ensure that the food that are made available to consumers, regardless of whether they come from inside or outside the European Union, meet the stricter rules.
 Of course I understand the concern of the honourable Member.
 I am sorry to say, Commissioner, that I am not interested in your reply.
 The question that the honourable Member raises is important.
 In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the indigenous population all-ijaw to instigate violence against it and even pay the Nigerian soldiers to shoot against demonstrators at the naval base in warri.
 In its report adopted on 15 November, the Commission came to the conclusion that aid to the exploitation under Regulation 1540 / 98 have not been able to solve the problem of the South of pricing policies.
 I believe that the whole of intent is hugely reassuring, but the reality is that in the meantime our shipyards are closing down.
 Question No 38 by (H-0868 / 00):
 Commissioner, I understand that you do not want to change its decision in spite of the fact that ten Member States are opposed to this tariff.
 This initiative is based on a Council regulation amending Regulation which defines the egp.
 I represent some producers and therefore feel a deep concern.
 We are working on this in the committee, we have not taken up this week to be Poul Nielson absent from a trip to the Balkans.
 We are working on the safeguard clause and if Mr Clegg needs arguments to talk with their beet growers, have at their disposal.
 I would like to thank Mr Liikanen for his very positive and brilliant response.
 I shall deal with this matter with my services once we know the budgetary resources available for the next financial year.
 At this time, the efforts of my services and my own personal focus on limiting the distance between the parties and the future Court.
 In the same way that the courts in Düsseldorf, Munich and other cities in Germany have specialised in patent law, and there are also specialised courts in London, a Community court meeting and judged cases relating to Community patents should be very specialised.
 In order to prevent this provisional situation gets a permanent in character, on 13 July 1999, on 13 July last year, the Commission stated in a letter to the Member States concerned its obligation to designate courts to Community trade marks.
 As you know the honourable parliamentarian of your House, the presentation of a complaint is not in itself to the progress of the project.
 Question No 47 by (H-0877 / 00):
 This means, therefore, that the Commission only make use of the legal measures which provides as stated in the Rules of Procedure.
 The question is where these students must come to understand that when still this cycle of studies and succeed in Britain are entitled to obtain results.
 The King could be chosen by a certain time between the Finnish Members of the European Parliament more valuable.
 It could also be seen as an issue which affects competition, it will continue to be sold without taxes in the southern part of the Baltic, en route between Stockholm and Helsinki, that will not be possible in the route between Umeå and Vaasa.
 What we must do is to correct this situation through the promotion of multilingual content, because they are a prerequisite for the success of the content industry in Europe.
 The problem which concerns me most is that small businesses do not always have sufficient guarantees and contrasting trade a path to offer the investor.
 To complete the ambitious development of the European programme e-contenidos is necessary to simplify and consolidate from the point of view of safety procedures involved.
 Therefore, the objective of the public support measures for the promotion of the content industry of the EU also has to be the achievement of a high level of culture and the diversification of the same.
 On the other hand, are communication networks, who need to fill their content endlessly cyberspace obvious, and consider the subordination of content, their purchase, its use without special attention to the rules of production.
 Mr President, I very much welcome the programme relating to the European digital content and I should like to stress two points.
 That is why I support the amendments calling for the adoption of specific actions in the field of new technologies.
 Firstly, on the social and cultural function of digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament stresses the social and cultural dimension of digital content.
 Assessment and management of environmental noise
 Indeed, I am grateful for the support that the Christian Democrats and, incidentally, also part of the Liberal Group, have given this amendment in particular to limit noise from aircraft.
 Just this year, six years later the dates mentioned above, and under pressure from the French Government, the Commission has presented a proposal for harmonised noise indicators.
 This proposal is, in fact, quite moderate, if we bear in mind that the Scandinavian countries already have stricter rules than those that we are proposing for the year 2012.
 Orly Schiphol, Barcelona and other airports comply with strict measures.
 Another important point which we propose to insert and which will be essential in the context of the problem of aircraft noise is the definition of other additional noise indicators, in addition to the pointed out by the rapporteur.
 Due to a lack of common standards in the European Union, we have seen terrible distortions of competition between airports and a lack of fairness between the citizens of the various Member States.
 That is why the amendments of my colleague, Bernd Lange seem to me to be very important.
 Mr President, first of all, I must say that I welcome this report.
 This was in fact the purpose of Amendment No 36, although I believe that the idea is not yet fully developed.
 We should discuss this point in detail in both areas and then take a combined approach on the one hand, establishing limit values for the various sources of noise emissions and, on the other hand, quality standards for emissions.
 We need more time and I regret that we have not had, although in general terms, I support the framework directive.
 Once the Member States have given comparable information, the Commission will examine the issue of introducing Community limit values and other measures to reduce the number of people who are affected by noise, and will be submitting a report to the Council and Parliament.
 Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
 These are the three criteria.
 Thank you, Mr Seguro, I sympathise with you, because, if you as a estropajo throat, I have it as a bayeta, as we say in the north of the Rhine; the fact is that it seems that influenza is hanging over here.
 If the diet chronic problems are, moreover, increases the risk of contracting cancer.
 Then, it was also found that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act appropriately.
 Tomorrow we have in the programme another stage. Then the ball will be in our colleague Mrs Paulsen, of the Liberal Group, who will have the opportunity to make even more the directive that is before us.
 The Member States and the Commission now have a better instrument to ensure the correct implementation of Community legislation on animal feedingstuffs and, in the event of emergency situations arise in third countries, can take measures without loss of time.
 We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and until now, these issues have been in embryonic stage as regards cities.
 The planning process must be applied fairly and innovation.
 The multiannual programme 2000-2004 for sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for this purpose, as well as the implementation of Agenda 21 is an excellent means of coordination and development actions.
 In order to ensure that the threat of climate change is necessary to decrease the transport and abandoning fossil fuels at local level.
 There have been many have suggested that the budget is too small.
 It is intended that the main partners in this context are the Commission and the networks of local authorities, which have the legal liability to develop and implement policies of sustainable development in the urban environment.
 The Court of Justice of the European Communities and even the bodies responsible for resolving conflicts of the WTO believe that on occasions the precautionary principle applies in the environmental field and in the field of public health, and even sometimes against Europeans, as shown by the unresolved issue of cheese from fresh milk.
 The aim must not be to the restriction or compensation of damage, but that the primary objective must be to prevent damage to health or the assets of persons.
 In 1996, the European Parliament came out in favour of a ban on the use of animal meal throughout the European Union, in accordance with the precautionary principle; but only by this.
 It has never existed, and there will never be an absolute scientific certainty on new substances or on new products.
 Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is essential to the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation
 And, lastly, that public health and the environment must take precedence over other considerations, particularly economic ones.
 An essential condition for the application of the precautionary principle is that the concern about the possible harmful effects will provide a scientific basis.
 Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American professor George Carlo, whom the Food and Drugs Administration has entrusted in the last seven years a study on the impact of radiation in human health, revealed that there is a risk that the use of mobile phones strengthens the emergence of brain tumours, Alzheimer's disease and injury on the skin.
 Mr President, the environment and public health are complicated as a machine with a raft of functions that monitor and control in order to be able to intervene, and that this should not be obstructed.
 The application of this principle must at all costs avoid stifle innovation and economic activity, generate timidity and industrial immovability, become a means to discourage competition.
 As you will have noticed, the Parliament, the Commission's position is in line with most of the issues raised in your motion for a resolution.
 The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
 Article 2 enshrines the right to life. And at every opportunity that in Spain terrorism kills one person, the whole Union is affected in what is one of its most fundamental principles.
 We do not want to replace the institutions legitimately established, but urgirlas to protect our rights and our freedoms without concessions to terror.
 Votes
 It also recalled the observation of the Council on the classification of the budget lines relating to the draft early retirement of the Commission and on the administrative costs of the fisheries agreements.
 (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
 That is to say, is no longer present.
 The 23.428 licence obtained find them a few, but on the other hand will be glad to be offered space so that they can grow.
 The consequence of this removal, which began to be implemented in the middle of last year, was, as we predicted, an interruption dramatic the pace of approval of projects and implementation of payments, with what the annual implementation of authorisations for this fund at the end of June 2000, was cut by one percentage point.
 The text is carte blanche ideal for closure in practice of the General Secretariat of the European Parliament in Luxembourg.
 Before my journey, they said to me: "it is Christmas and we welcome in Bergamo Christmas and St Lucia. Will the Bellona.
 In addition, we object to the over-production of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to be sold.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the García-Margallo y Marfil report on the taxation of electronic commerce.
 Mr President, I shall try enmendarme before the year 2004 with some explanation of vote in favour of Malta.
 However, I say this with some solemnity: is the best we can accept a Europe, in my view, too liberal!
 The existence of a deadline incentivaría the postal sector, to develop and to modernise their services, while at the same time would facilitate the planning and investments in the markets.
 Will continue to exert pressure. Consolidate its position with the money they make with the apportionment of shipments of more than 150 grammes.
 The liberalisation of postal services, as was proposed by the Commission, it is not adequate and coherent, which is why I have voted in favour of the report and all the amendments expressing the same direction.
 De Roo report (A5-0378 / 2000)
 We also have reservations about Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, we remain convinced that are compatible with the WTO.
 The Commission proposal is unacceptable as it stands, because it represents a capitulation to the dictatorship American capitulation! that is unworthy of our European project and the environmental and social model which we say we want to build!
 This contravenes the respect for national identity as laid down in Article 6 (3) of the Treaty on European Union.
 It should be noted that linguistic minorities, instead of being engulfed by the globalisation of the Internet, have found in this means a new opening cultural and economic.
 Mr President, in the absence of other results, the negotiations which took place in Nice will have made clear the intentions of the protagonists of the European Union.
 In this regard the tone of the joint resolution is too simplistic.
 The delay in the publication of the written conclusions - which are not yet officially available at the moment, four days - shows the difficulty of drafting clearly decisions taken in confusion.
 The only way to avoid dangerous conflicts in the future, is to maintain the traditional concept according to which Europe is based on mutual respect for national communities.
 The Nice Summit ended with an agreement that Sunday should lead to a draft Treaty.
 The resolution on Nice, voted on today, does not reflect this.
 Finally, a reference to social policy, of which France had opted in the presentation of your Presidency, but which, in the end, it was in a hand full of very little, beyond declarations of intent and the titles of documents of content is extremely vague and clearly insufficient to the existing problems and the enormous dissatisfaction, of which the demonstration of workers in Nice was also important expression.
 In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and migration, everything is as before.
 What is striking in the debate on Nice is the feeling that in the end the Treaty has no father or mother and child is one: the French Presidency in desdobló apologise, instead of accepting the outcome of the IGC and their reasons; the political groups which correspond to the governments of the Member States multiplicaron criticism.
 On the contrary, reduces the influence of national democracies, by restricting the right to veto and being given more power to the European Parliament.
 If these consequences would be able to be calculated in my year of birth, in 1944, to conclude the agreement of Chicago, might not have been agreed to an exemption from tax on fuel and other products of aviation.
 Given that zero risk does not exist, scientists, or at least, politicians must apply the criterion of proportionality, judge the risks uncertain and assume their responsibilities.
 But this Parliament also fought for this reduction in resources for innovative policies were offset using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
 We all have a part to play in this important area because, in a truly global market in which we are already, new ideas - with adequate resources, and with a firm support and realistic - will mean that we can maintain our place in Europe at the forefront of technological development in new industries and in communication technology in particular.
 In the previous speech were already harsh words against the budgets, and that is that EUR 400 million really is the minimum funding, so in the second part of the exercise should seize the opportunities for additional funding which offers the flexibility instrument, as has been pointed out in the report.
 In my opinion, this will automatically, and not as concludes the report, a reduction of European added value.
 As we all know, in the European Union, unemployment is concentrated in the territories economically and technologically less developed countries, particularly in the Objective 1, therefore it is necessary to the innovative actions are not only a simple technical nature, but which are inspired by an explicit commitment of economic development and employment.
 When I go back to my own region, the East of England, and I find that not a single local administration has used this money in this period, I doubt that we have been effective everything that we have to be in the future to welcome these new communities.
 Mr President, my first words are for Helmut Markov to thank and congratulate him on the tabling constructive, extremely competent and serious draft communication on the innovative actions of the ERDF for the period 2000-2006.
 Energy efficiency and the aspects of environmental policy in these guidelines have not been forgotten. Can give rise to innovative actions by way of third issue, which concerns the regional identity and sustainable development.
 However, we hope that the projects are selected at regional level, as, moreover, has understood Mr Berend in his speech.
 The debate is closed.
 That is why we call in this report and in the three amendments that we have added to the Commission to redouble its efforts to bring a case of conciliation before the WTO.
 I think that the Commissioner must prove to the industry that is doing everything we can in this respect to cope with this external threat to our industry.
 Finally, of course, we hope that, since 18 December - to be examined at the meeting of the group 6 of the OECD agreement "ships."
 However, all the indications are that the final goal is moving again and again, so that we can never achieve.
 As you all know, the simple handling of this procedure will need more than six months.
 For the large corporations, and for their lawyers, less State political claim only mean that the state and its finances must be made available to them.
 But to achieve this, so that the process will consolidate the shipbuilding industry, jobs and reassure the families that depend on it, are still necessary aid beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not equal, but of disloyalty and dumping.
 The Commission encourages the aim of improving the competitiveness of EU yards, but against the massive cuts in the price of the Korean shipyards, increased productivity that can be achieved is not enough.
 The Council emphasised that this support mechanism must not distort competition within the EU.
 The presence of nuclear submarine in waters of Algeciras Bay has become because, unfortunately, in a diplomatic conflict between a military power and nuclear colonial and a second-class Member State, according to the latest classification of Nice, which does not require their rights and doblega before explanations of children.
 When, through the part doctor who were bounced into the country in which the owner, i.e. through the press British one - it was found that the disease was serious, instead of change of heart I changed the qualification at the Center.
 And, of course, we await with interest the reply of the Commission to check whether the objective has been achieved.
 Mr President, I too would like, first of all, to express my sympathy to the family of councillor murdered and with members of the Partido Popular, and rejection of this barbarity of fascist ETA and groups that are support.
 I also believe that it would be desirable to carry the submarine Tireless in Britain to repair, as soon as possible, as soon as the weather conditions appropriate.
 You have asked whether the Commission considers that the Directive 89 / 618 / Euratom on information to the population in the event of a radiological emergency, and Directive 96 / 29 / Euratom on basic security rules, apply the submarine and what measures have been taken accordingly.
 In accordance with the usual procedure for complaints, we cannot make public this answer, although we can say to outline what he says.
 One aspect of the Euratom Treaty is the transport of radioactive waste between Member States; but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and all contaminated waste will go from one part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without any Member State of the European Union.
 All we have to do is to win the confidence of the people who live in the rock.
 However, we see here a Member State which is public opinion in another Member State, as would any other country in the world, as if, in fact, there was no affectio societatis fifty years after the start of the European company, as if European solidarity had not made progress in the slightest.
 It is a fact that at a given moment the only submarine operating in British waters was a German submarine.
 There is being discussed but citizens, based on their knowledge or in its intuition, directing their attention to the European institutions.
 The lack of spending in new military equipment due to the cuts in the area of defence of the British Labour Government will lead in the future, without doubt, to more frequent episodes of military equipment that you are withdrawing defective to carry out repairs essential.
 The competence of the Community, even if some people wish to something else, does not cover the classification of seaports to make repair work in submarines, or questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine may be withdrawn for repair in another place.
 It would be necessary, to provide more assistance, calling on the Community institutions to strengthen the financial, human and material resources of the UNHCR had.
 I ask the Commission once again to increase the aid and that always appoint the UNHCR as coordinating body at all the contracts concluded with NGOs.
 It should, therefore, be able to have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move with all security and to provide the necessary resources to fulfil its mission.
 On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which was the ultimate objective in Tampere for the common European asylum system.
 Finally, I would like to pay tribute to all the work that has been done by Mrs Ogata for the UNHCR and wish Mr.
 We think it is important that we pursue an amnesty policy in Yugoslavia for this recovery which I mentioned, but we also think it is very important that we condemn without doubt the reappearance of incursions and terrorist activities at the border between Albania and Kosovo, Serbia, because this worryingly reminiscent of what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where there was responsibilities of Western powers.
 In paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of our compromise resolution we are talking about very clear.
 I would also appeal to President Kostunica to clarify what has happened with people like Mr Ukshin Hoti, whose fate we have discussed here on several occasions and whose whereabouts we know nothing.
 I also endorse the call that KFOR to disrupt any act of violence in the Presevo Valley.
 I welcome the measures which it has already adopted KFOR to tackle the problem and I am calling for moderation on all sides.
 B5-0916 / 2000 by Mr Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the PSE Group;
 This clause was agreed at the palace in March 1990, and I know because I had the privilege to be there at the inauguration of President alwyn, after the referendum which put an end to the regime of General Pinochet.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the joint resolution on which we shall be voting in favour, of course.
 It is important that the international community to exercise their democratic right of supervision, not as interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, but as political procedure, preventive and protective.
 The situation in the prisons and the police headquarters, with torture and ill-treatment, is totally unacceptable.
 This treatment is exactly the same as we see in Western Europe, and to the protests, the Minister hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to ensure social and political consensus on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.
 It is urgent, and that is why we decided to include this item on the agenda.
 Under him on 8 January. Is criticized for having taken part in a meeting of Tunisian opponents in France, which, furthermore, he denies.
 When militants and responsible for these associations to meet the day of the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the police around their homes and those who are attending this meeting are attacked in the streets by men dressed in civil society.
 The second problem is, in fact, only one part of a set of oppression.
 My group, like this Parliament, is particularly sensitive to the human rights situation in Tunisia and the rest of the world.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, show a little restraint, please.
 The negotiations marched very well and I am pleased that these negotiations are gaining speed, which I hope will lead to the conclusion that the honourable Member referred.
 Several honourable Members have referred to the situation of the prisoners in Turkey.
 B5-0912 / 2000 by Mr Van Hecke, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group;
 Could we not, in my opinion, Mr President, Commissioner, retractarnos regarding this attitude.
 In this context the seizure of power by the military, which, as always, only served to worsen the situation.
 This attitude fits in well with the continuation of the policy of French imperialism.
 The Commission is very worried about the recent violence.
 The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
 Unfair competition helps destroy good environments for shipbuilding, the loss of know-how) (know-how and jobs and can lead to long-term monopoly situations, which will not benefit the world trade.
 Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
 Therefore, I would like to thank all colleagues for the contribution you have also given in the process of tabling amendments and experts from the Commission because they have been extremely valuable elements to achieve a successful conclusion of the resolution.
 The adoption of the social agenda by the Nice European Council we are particularly pleased, and we hope that the Member States will be able to seize this opportunity to encourage the development and the coordination of social security systems and care for the elderly, and encourage other measures, such as, for example, lifelong learning, which will guarantee its reintegration into working life.
 The promotion of lifelong learning throughout life - something that has already been mentioned by another speaker - is another matter which I also support.
 Of course, people over 60 or 70 years can do many things, but it is a mistake to do that, to their age, their income dependent on his work.
 Already, in its monthly report July 2000, the European Central Bank, very serious warnings about this.
 As far as I am concerned, the Member States can tackle this problem much better themselves by means of their own legislation.
 With its proposals for an active life for the elderly, society is gaining a whole generation.
 We must keep the promises on pensions, but pensions must be guaranteed with own resources of these countries, without the need for a common financial policy of the EU to fulfil its payment.
 In recent 100-150 years we have experienced the greatest social revolution, which has doubled the life expectancy.
 Is the purpose of the mathematical extension of life, which has enabled us to medical progress.
 Claimed compensation - society was, therefore, older workers affected - left employment, but not to young workers were hired and many jobs.
 The result of family policy and taxes should be rather than men and women with family responsibilities can decide whether they want to develop employment or not.
 My brother and I met him there.
 Other initiatives in the field of public health aimed above all issues relating to health and care for the elderly and the promotion of a healthy ageing.
 . (IT) Mr President, I accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, on which says that we need to amend the text and insists on the concept of demographic development compared with demographic ageing.
 It is not a matter of duplicating the operations advertising or promotion of operators to each sector or public authorities.
 Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in principle, it was also in favour of the Commission proposal.
 That is why it is very important to offer compensation and it can be put into practice very properly through promotional measures and advertising.
 I believe that in the context of the marketing and sales should be given a much more central to continuous training within the training programmes, since the new technologies, the management of promotion, entirely new opportunities for a modern logistics.
 First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary, for his excellent report.
 My next point concerns the question of exports and intervention.
 We must not pay for certain products that are not, or to propaganda.
 The whole world has sufficient food, so that if a product promocionamos obviously do so against the other.
 Amendment No 18 and the first part of Amendment No 24, which reduce from three to two years the frequency with which will be reviewed the themes and selected products in order to improve the effectiveness of the instrument of promotion.
 Jutta Haug like the rapporteur, that is to say, as a man, and Mr Markus Ferber, like the rapporteur, that is to say, as women.
 This illustrates how small changes can be achieved with a major impact in practice.
 This is temporarily our last Friday in Strasbourg, namely that Strasbourg will lose 12 days of the presence of Parliament.
 Incidentally, I would like to wish a happy Christmas and a prosperous, but, above all, wise new century everybody, but, in particular, to those who believe that deserves to be present this Friday, in this final assembly of the year 2000 in Strasbourg.
