 The racial divided house of Europe
 A common feature of the extreme right of Europe is its racism and its use of the subject of immigration as a political force.
 The Lega Nord in Italy, the Vlaams Blok of Holland, supporters of the National Front of Mr Le Pen in France, are examples of parties or trained movements from the common theme of aversion to immigrants and promoting policies simplistic to control them.
 Although individuals as jorg Haidar and Jean Marie Le Pen and (never come too soon) van, the issue of race of European policy will not disappear anytime soon.
 The population increasingly old at home and borders more open than ever, entail a racial fragmentation in European countries.
 The main parties centre left and centre right have faced the prospectus burying its head in the land, have false hopes that the problem disappear.
 It will not, as clearly shows racial history in the United States.
 Race relations in the US have been at the centre of the political debate for decades, and still are, to the point that the racial cracks are just as important as the income, if not more, as determinants of preferences and political attitudes.
 The first step to confront the racial policy is to understand the origin and the consequences of racial animosity, even if it means crack unpleasant truths.
 That is precisely what a great deal of research in economics, sociology, psychology and political science has made to the US.
 This research shows that the people of a different race rely much less in each other; whites are less willing to support the welfare spending because it considers that favours minorities; communities rather fragmented governments racialmente less efficient, more corruption and patronage, more crime and less productive public goods for every dollar of taxes.
 This does not mean that the answer is to eliminate the heterogeneity and create racialmente homogenous communities, but we need to acknowledge the reality of such issues to begin to build sound public policies for the race relations.
 Of course, the Americans are not agree on how to do that.
 Some encourage affirmative action programs that give preference to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to the College and the allocation of public contracts.
 These policies are regarded as a way of providing for redress past injustices and, more important than that of creating figures, model) (role models and overcome the residual discrimination and perhaps involuntary.
 Other oppose affirmative action and argue that a blind policy to races, together with free-market policies and the values profamiliares, that is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep the black families.
 The latter is crucial for any policy, because one of the major causes of poverty in the US is the spread of households parents actually (single mothers) in the Community dismal.
 Irrespective of the right response, the point is that determine what to do about races is a dominant theme of American policy.
 Of course, minorities have made progress on the path towards greater integration and economic success.
 In the 1950s blacks could not sit in the section of buses, today two of the most important people of US foreign policy are black.
 Certainly, American politicians are using the right "racial Charter" as a tool tactics.
 Take the case of Patrick Buchanan, the exasistente Nixon Reagan and that became independent presidential candidate in the recent elections.
 He published a book which took acceptance recently called "the death of the West: how dying immigrant populations and movie imperil our country and civilization" (the death of the West: how moribund populations and the invasion of immigrants endanger our country and civilisation).
 But for every book as that there are other ten which offer a serious analysis of the issues in the US.
 The analysis of policies and the debates on race relations are very far behind in Europe.
 To how much these issues are faced with so little open, in terms of immigration quotas and border restrictions, not in terms of social problems and opportunities created by a Europe which is increasingly mixed racialmente.
 Of course, it is necessary to have a clear immigration policy to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.
 But that cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico are not the end of American policy towards the domestic problems racial!
 Europe is rich and old quickly; Europeans, in better-off generous welfare programs, are no longer prepared to accept "dirty work" in, say, agriculture or the fur industry.
 This makes it inevitable have an increase in immigration.
 Europeans, however, are ready to criticise us for any failure in its policy for minorities and for any demonstration of racism across the Atlantic.
 To read the European press one often sees a complex of superiority towards the US with regard to the themes: they racial, Americans, have problems with racism; we are immune, except for the unchecked skinheads neonacistas people and the like.
 What has happened in recent weeks, from Paris until Amsterdam, shows that the problem of racial in Europe is much more profound and, as in the US, which originates in the sad truth that race relations are inherently difficult and confidence and cooperative behaviour not well transiting through the racial lines.
 If the main parties in Europe does not invest more seriously in the understanding of racial tensions in Europe and put to the "race" as one of its main priorities, individuals like Le Pen certainly try to fill the gap with its message of hatred.
 Against the French exceptions
 The attention of Europe today is focused, rightly, enlargement and the Constitution that EU Member States are working.
 But the result of several Gallic clashes with the European Commission will be no less important to determine the fate of the new and enlarged Europe.
 France has decided to ignore, unilaterally, the pact for stability and growth, the incur a forecast deficit well over the limit of 3% of GDP.
 The French likes to proclaim the rigour rational their thoughts, but when it comes to Descartes deficits, giving way to obfuscation.
 France was among the main criticism of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish government reduced their budget surplus, which was then 4% of GDP in just 0.5%.
 Other countries have violated the Stability Pact, but France is the first to do so with an open attitude of presumptuous challenge.
 None of this should sorpender anyone.
 France is simply applying the rules of the EU as their innate habit of seeing their own culture and exceptional.
 For example, France streak consistently reforms to the common agricultural policy of the EU.
 As you know even children, the CAP is a beautiful and quite unwarranted gift to European farmers rich (paricularmente the French) at the expense of the beleaguered farmers in developing countries and of consumers in the EU.
 France is also trying to return to the old rescue policies, with taxpayers' money to private companies non-profit on the verge of collapse.
 The Commissioner for competition policy of the EU, Mario Monti, cannot miss this battle: it needs the support of those who believe in markets and equal treatment for all.
 Here, the case is simple.
 The French Government intends to rescue Alstom, a company that has developed a series of high-tech products, including the TGV, the fast train French, but that recently go bankrupt.
 The French Government maintains that it will never in its plan to rescue Alstom, a plan with all the motivations dirigistes known: maintaining employment, protect the investment, etc.
 Moreover, as Alstom is a company in high technology, the French Government is using the pretext of research and development, stating that are good for growth.
 Rescue Alstom through nationalization of the company is obviously wrong.
 The company is composed of various parties, some profitable, some bankrupt the obvious: is it.
 The lucrative components, such as the TGV, you will find buyers easily; plants productive not had to be closed down.
 The French taxpayers' money would be better spent on temporary benefits to posted workers in subsidies to keep alive a plant not lucrative.
 It is important that the European Commission does not allow France apply special rules on competition policy, as seems to be doing with its budget deficits.
 The Commission must prevent to give public assistance to private companies in France, as it does with subsidies of this kind in any other Member State of the EU.
 The Commission has already had some successes in this area, which highlights the fact that the German Government to cancel government guarantees for public banks.
 Alstom in particular, and France in general, must not be the exception and must be limited to the same standards.
 If the Commission does not act, the EU seem even more the park own playgrounds servants French.
 France has always played a leading role in the EU's foreign policy, and the Foreign Affairs Minister, Dominique de Villepin, looks increasingly and acts as the Foreign Minister of Europe.
 At the same time, France violates basic rules of the common economic policy and of public aid to private companies.
 Does the European Commission will lose what remains of credibility to conclude resembling a small arrondissement Paris?
 A defeat in the Alstom case would have serious consequences in Europe (and not only in terms of competition policy).
 The war for oil
 For decades, through democratic and Republican administrations, the United States has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining global oil prices as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons in the way less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify sources of oil imported.
 Despite appearances, none of these objectives has changed under the Bush administration.
 Many observers believe that Bush has set a new course because the invasion of Iraq apparently goes against these objectives.
 A significant increase in the production of Iraqi oil would probably dependence on the us towards the oil, in relation to other sources of energy, since world oil prices would perhaps as a response to the increase in the supply.
 This, in turn, would mean an increase in dependence on the us towards the imported petroleum, particularly in the Middle East.
 However, the irony is that the US exercising greater control over the Iraqi oil sector under the oil-for-food programme of the UN, in force before the war (in which this organisation, Saddam Hussein, determined the level of sales of Iraqi oil abroad), of which will be under a democratic Iraq in the future.
 If the Bush administration had been looking for petroleum sources stable, secure diversified and cheap, simply could have lifted the embargo against Libya, Iran, Iraq and Sudan, to allow the oil fluyera.
 But the United States' interest in Iraqi oil was not driven by the economy or the energy policy.
 The Bush administration acknowledged that the Iraqi oil is a resource critical geopolitical.
 Whoever controls Iraqi oil will take control of Iraq.
 The power of Saddam was its control over the second largest reserves of oil in the world.
 Understood perfectly well what oil meant to their power.
 Given the possibility of the invasion and defeat Saddam, threatened to burn down the oil fields of the country.
 Much of the destruction and the plundering of the oil installations which occurred after reflects that everyone understands that control oil means controlling Iraq.
 When America was planning its invasion, to ensure oil deposits became a priority criticism.
 The goal was not increase supply or reduce prices for Americans, but to deprive Saddam in their power and, in the long run, to establish a new and strong Iraqi Government.
 The future of Iraq is directly dependent upon the fate of oil production of the country.
 However, the vagaries of oil business, especially in conditions so unstable, do not allow can clearly see how the Bush administration to achieve his goals in Iraq in the near future.
 The logic is simple.
 The US must use oil revenues to remove American taxpayers the burden of finance regime change in Iraq.
 All the reconstruction projects depend, in the long term, the ability of Iraq to export large amounts of oil.
 If Iraq does not surrender oil, President Bush will not be able to keep its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and the world community.
 Before the invasion, the ability of Iraqi oil production was three million barrels per day.
 Iraq will not be able to revive this level during the time needed to establish a new government.
 Any increase in the production requires the development of the oil fields, which means large investments, a legal and representative government, and political stability.
 Even the Bush administration hoped that these conditions are met soon.
 Indeed, the political stability is the main condition to increase the production capacity.
 The historical evidence of Iran, Kuwait, Russia, and even the same Iraq, suggest that are needed around three years since the restoration of political stability to the ability to increase significantly and maintain a high level.
 Iraq needs several years to write a new Constitution, to establish a legitimate government and democratic, negotiate the distribution of oil revenues between their regions, implement laws of investment and to the economy to be attractive to foreigners.
 It also needs time to negotiate with the international oil companies and with its neighbouring countries, to carry out technical studies and viability, and to rebuild, rehabilitate and explore their oil deposits.
 Thus, even a timetable for three years seems to be optimistic, because it is that, during this period, the occupation cease, Iraqis will establish their own democratic government and be political stability.
 We need not say that the situation can develop differently.
 The tensions could continue for years.
 Moreover, no one should be surprised if oil production stops completely, even under a democratic government.
 History suggests that the strikes and other similar events that may interrupt oil production are greater threat in democratic countries that those who are not.
 If Iraq does not quickly can increase its production capacity in the foreseeable future, this will be an obstacle to foreign policy and the energy of the US.
 How will the long-term reconstruction of Iraq?
 Who will pay for maintaining a fragile Iraqi democracy?
 Can the us sustain its occupation if they are not capable of providing food, health care, and other basic services to the Iraqi people?
 These are difficult questions, and essentially cannot be answered until a stable and democratic regime in Iraq can control and ensure a steady flow of oil exports.
 When the murderers care human rights
 If it were not so absolutely sad, it is undoubtedly the millennium joke: Libya has been elected to chair the Commission on Human Rights of the United Nations.
 When calígula Senator appointed to its horse, at least the animal had no blood in the hooves.
 Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the Presidency rotates every year of a region of the world to another.
 This year was the question Africa to nominate the President, and appointed Libya.
 Only the United States and Canada voted against.
 For its eternal shame, European countries abstained.
 This decision was given in such a sensitive time for the organisation is indicative of the moral bankruptcy of the UN.
 President Bush has challenged the UN to show its seriousness on their own decisions on Iraq; otherwise could have the same end ignominious that the League of Nations, which was helpless in the 1930s, when faced aggressive policies Nazi Germany and the Fascist Italy.
 Choose to Libya to chair the UN agency responsible for human rights hardly helps to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of the global authority.
 Remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyranny; its leader, moammar kadafi, combines erratic behaviour with policies extremists, and supports dictators throughout the world.
 Is one of the most repressive regimes, where there is not even a simulations of elections and where dissent is crushed immediately.
 Under his government, Libya has supported terrorist organisations in the world (from the IRA to various groups Palestinian extremists).
 Is still under UN sanctions for its role in the derribamiento a flight Pan Am Lockerbie in Scotland, ten years ago.
 In the last decade, the position of the UN as a symbol of the ideals of a peaceful world has been eroded.
 It was totally incapable of stopping the war in the Balkans, and in at least one case (Srebrenica), a Dutch force of the UN peace remained as a mere spectator of the worst massacre in Europe after 1945, when the Bosnian Serbs murdered around 6000-strong defenceless Muslims.
 A committee of inquiry admitted Dutch later that the Dutch battalion of the UN had, in fact, been complicit in this war crime.
 In Rwanda, when genocide began, the UN official responsible for the peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the country of the forces of the organisation, leaving the way open for massacre genocidal the bloodiest since the Second World War.
 The name of the official is Kofi Annan.
 It is a depressing story and pathetic that the UN is trying to (probably in vain) redeem in standing in the Iraq crisis as the voice of reason and international legitimacy.
 But at a time when the UN inspections in Iraq seem as sending the Salvation Army to remove a band of gangster Libya, raising the Presidency of the Commission on Human Rights might go down in history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose lives began optimistically.
 The organisations do not sulen die, and there is certainly very raison d'Etat to ensure that the UN continues unchecked, albeit limping along.
 But it will be a mere shadow of what should and could be.
 Today, the hypocrisy is the mark of the UN.
 At the gates authoritarian
 Last Thursday, the central court judges in Jakarta, Indonesia I, who was sentenced to one year's imprisonment.
 As editor-in-chief of tempo weekly newsmagazine, I am guilty, according to the Court, slander magnate called a business tomy winata implied by its possible participation in a fire in the textile market Southeast Asian Jakarta and promote disturbances spread untruths.
 It is that my case, and other similar, must presage the end of another democratic experiment short-lived in Indonesia?
 The troubles that I supposedly fomenté occurred in March of last year, when almost 200 crooks, who said to be supporters of winata, attacked the offices of tempo, threatened to burn the building, the staff nudge him off a reporter and wounded.
 To try to resolve the situation peacefully, assured me to negotiate at the central station Jakarta police, but I discovered, to my horror, which was in the hands of the leaders of peat.
 I hacked and I kicked great while the police blind.
 Fortunately, many journalists arrived in our rescue with the grabadoras lights and chambers.
 Their emissions caused protests that prompted our Parliament to organise a public hearing.
 The heads of the national police and Jakarta were called, and under enormous pressure popular, the leaders of peat were accused of criminal.
 But winata evadió research policiaca simply declaring in public that his supporters had acted without that he knew and without their consent.
 He then presented their own criminal charges against Ahmad Taouffik, who wrote article, teuku iskandar Ali, who, He edited and myself.
 The judicial procedure that lasted a year was riddled with a series of events suspects, all in favour of winata.
 First, the case that were put forward by the police and the prosecutor of the State contained counterfeit documents that had been so obviously the police charged two official.
 But the Court rejected our request to delay the process until they could clarify the legality of the case of the State.
 The case against the officers involved does not seem to be moving.
 On the contrary, one of them was promoted to steer the newly-established (with funds from the US) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.
 The other States that was sent to the Academy for the staff of police advanced training.
 Subsequently, during the six month of the process, the President of the panel composed of three judges suddenly was promoted to head the Court of a city an hour's Jakarta.
 One of my lawyers said that in their 35 years of experience in courts had never seen to replace a magistrate President during an ongoing court.
 Indeed, despite its rise, the judge being followed another case in the same premises.
 A judge who previously had ruled against tempo in civil demand of winata came to office.
 Finally, when winata paid their testimony perjury, committed to deny that tempo had interviewed.
 Recently occurred with a recording of the interview Telefónica in the court reporter, who made the interview and two editors that the witnessed gave evidence juries, the official registration of telephone company was presented as evidence of the so-called and an expert concluded that the voice in the recording was tomy winata.
 But the judges refused to request the tempo of arrested and prosecuted for winata perjury and told us that warning to the police, which did.
 Then the judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the Court to be resolved the case of perjury against winata.
 Given the process so faulty, my condemnation and my judgment is not surprising.
 However, I still have hope to win in the end, when the higher courts correspond to the appeal made by jumping ahead.
 The courts of Indonesia are cleaner while greater their hierarchy, and the President of the Supreme Court is a strong advocate of democracy and freedom of the press. The case of tempo could become a victory to set a milestone in our democracy, as it was the decision of the Supreme Court of the US in the case of the New York Times V. Sullivan.
 The most difficult to charges of defamation, this decision guarantees that journalists Americans can make public officials accountable.
 No country knows better than Indonesia that freedom of expression and a free press are indicators tested democratic development and treat journalists as criminals is first a symptom of authoritarianism.
 Indonesia was a liberal democracy in the 1950s, before the President Sukarno, with the support of the military, began to suppress the press in 1956.
 With the critical voices silenciadas, consolidate a power without limit was easier and, in July 1959, Sukarno declared the start of the "guided democracy".
 During the first years after the fall of Sukarno in 1966, be restored, all the advantages of the genuine democracy, including the freedom of the press (except for the Communists).
 But the regime of President Suharto unleashed a new repression against the press at the beginning of the 1970s, and eventually banned various means and jailed many journalists.
 With the press under control, other political rights were restricted quickly and democracy in Indonesia returned to fail.
 Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third most democratic country in the world and in the greater democratic community of Muslim history.
 There have been two parliamentary elections and two direct presidential elections, including the final showdown presidencial-que have been open, fair and peaceful, which shows that Islam and democracy can coexist.
 However, the enemies of democracy are never.
 Radical Islamist groups have participated in indiscriminate attacks, while groupings with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the inner circle of the President Megawati.
 But Mrs Megawati has just be defeated in their attempt to re-election.
 Does the recently elected President susilo accusing journalists continue?
 Perhaps my condemnation and trials and sentences of journalists, they will indicate the beginning of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia that both work cost?
 The answer lies in the support that activists in favour of democracy in the country to generate both internally and at international level.
 Indonesia potential lose - a beacon of hope for all of the pro-democracy activists of the Muslim community mundial-sería a defeat terrible.
 The morality of the death penalty
 Is often criticised the United States for refusing to abolish the death penalty.
 Many are currently asserting that the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition of a civilised criminal legal system.
 The Nobel Prize Gary Becker disagrees.
 European governments are firmly opposed to capital punishment -- the European Union by banning completo-- and some Europeans believe that their use in the United States is cruel.
 Indeed, many European intellectuals argue that not only the death penalty but punishments in general do not dissuade criminals.
 But while Europeans, with crime rates well below the us during the last half-century, could afford to be relatively "soft" with the majority of crimes, have seen a steep rise of its charges of crime in the past twenty years.
 Instead, the Americans have declined, partly due to a greater use of the punishments.
 This includes the death penalty.
 I support the implementation of some people convicted of murder because -- and only porque-- believe that avoids other murders.
 If I do not believe that I would oppose the death penalty because revenge and other possible reasons should not be the basis of public policy.
 The serious empirical studies on capital punishment in the US began with a study pioneer of Yitzhak ehrlich were published in 1975 in the American economic review.
 Some studies have found a subsequent payoff much weaker, while others have seen one much stronger.
 However, the available data are quite limited, so that no conclusion must not be based solely on the econométricas evidence.
 Of course public policies as regards any punishment cannot wait until new evidence perfect.
 But even with the evidence limited quantitative available, there is reason to believe that the death penalty discourages.
 Most people, and murderers in particular, fear of death, especially when it comes with promptness and a considerable certainty after being committed murder.
 As Mr Hume to talk about the suicide, "no one rejected his life while worth live it.
 Such is our natural terror to death... "in the same way, schopenhauer thought that" as the terrores of life reach the point where they are higher than terrores of death, a man put an end to their lives.
 But the terrores of death offer a considerable resistance... "
 Those who oppose the death penalty often claim that the State does not have the moral right of dropping life to anyone, including the worst murderers.
 However that is a conclusion totally wrong for anyone who believes that discourages the death penalty.
 To see why, consider that for every murderer executed (instead of sentenced to prison life, for example), the number of murders are reduced by three, that is a figure of ehrlich were well below and other calculations of the payoff.
 This means that for every murderer would not executed three innocent victims.
 In fact, the government would be contributing indirectly to "from" many lives if not use the death penalty.
 Three save innocent lives for every person executed appears to be a good compensation, and even two lives saved by implementation seems to be a convincing cost-benefit rate for the death penalty.
 However, it is true that the arguments in favour of the death penalty are less clear, as the number of lives saved by implementation diminishes.
 But even if it only salvara a life for implementation, the option could remain desirable if life which was saved is much better than life quitada, usually would be the case.
 Many people are opposed to compare the quality of life and which was saved the lives quitada.
 However, I do not see how to prevent such a comparison.
 Consider a criminal who stole career and kills a victim carrying a decent life and which leaves several children and a wife.
 Suppose it were possible to save the life of an innocent victim to execute this criminal.
 For me, it is obvious that to save the lives of the victim must exercise more life game to crime.
 Of course, not all cases are so clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must be part of any social policy reasonable.
 This helps to explain why the death penalty should be used only in cases of murder and not minor offences.
 When it comes to opt for taking lives and, say, reduce thieves, the arguments in favour of less severe punishments are much stronger.
 Although the severe attacks, including some appalling violations, can come to the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support their use in such cases.
 A powerful argument in favour of setting aside the death penalty to the murderers is "marginal deterrence."
 If the attacks are castigaran with the implementation, criminals have an incentive to kill their victims to avoid the (they only discover what constitutes an important reason why the severity of the punishments should be proportionate in general to the severity of the crimes).
 Complicating is that the death penalty can make the murderer fight with greater force to prevent his capture, which could lead to more deaths.
 But, while the marginal deterrence is important, I believe that the resistance of the murderers to be caught, possibly at the expense of their own lives, really is a test that the criminals are afraid to death.
 Of course I am worried about the risk of executing a innocent.
 My support for the death penalty is considerably weakening if the rate of executions of innocent people were as high as many claim.
 However, I believe that the process of appeal in the US offers a huge protection, not only against the condemnations wrong but against undue executions, so that there are very few documented cases, if any, of innocent people have been executed.
 And this process has been strengthened so much with the development of the identification based on DNA.
 Once again, the debate on the death penalty is essentially a debate on deterrence - which can be reduced to appeals lengthy).
 I understand that some people are sceptical about the evidence, although I believe that they are wrong, both as on the element of common sense of the issue.
 Is distressing antagonize the lives of someone, even a murderer, but sometimes very unpleasant acts are required to prevent behaviour worse than claim the lives of innocent victims.
 The people versus Putin
 I helped to select Vladimir Putin to succeed Boris Yeltsin, the first Russian President democratically elected.
 Since the structures of the KGB and the Mafia now govern Russia and manipulate the judicial system, is supposed to Yeltsin wanted to define who would be his successor to avoid legal prosecutions in the future.
 But those selecting Putin had the task of finding a person who continue to Yeltsin's reforms, not someone who escudara him and his family.
 Indeed, Yeltsin had no fear and not sought their survival staff, but the idea that democratic introduced in Russia.
 Now, however, this idea is threatened due to the successor to chose.
 I do not deny my responsibility for having supported Putin.
 We were not closest friends, but working together in critical situations, and always thought its sincerity.
 Putin acts guided by their convictions.
 The problem is that these, including its belief that Russia can only succeed if it is governed by a power originated in one source, are wrong.
 This great mistake is leading to Russia to ruin policy.
 Of course, nobody in a high leaves office of errors, even some fundamental, and this is particularly true in stormy periods.
 Yeltsin was no exception, but he did so.
 For example, when withdrew at New Year ’ s Eve of 1999 he apologized for the war in Chechnya.
 In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognise and acknowledge their mistakes, and persists in the implementation of a policy long after its failure is obvious to everybody.
 One of the mistakes of the Yeltsin was not moral priorities at the top of its reform programme.
 Russia should have been repented Stalinism and the system gulag of forced labour camps.
 The entire nation, without exceptions, she would have repented, the way the Germans have done since 1945.
 This omission is important, because it allowed the unhappy Putin belief in a central authority led to the state recaptura by the security services.
 Indeed, a direct result of national remorse for the era gulag should have been the prohibition of the Communist Party and the disqualification of those who have worked on the KGB to exert political office.
 Although these filters are political a complex matter in Postcommunist societies, where both the victimization and the cooperation are so widespread and the boundaries between them are so unclear, it could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
 Doing nothing left Russian security structures unaccountable and with the ability to make a return political, which have now succeeded.
 The resurrection policy of the structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence dissent, once again have transformed Russia in a country of dissidents.
 It is impossible to silence the political and the independent media without strangle the sources of financing independent, and for this reason for Putin's Kremlin has concentrated its attacks in the so-called "oligarchs."
 The arrest and trial of Mikhail Khodorkovsky were orchestrated precisely for this reason.
 Removing the sources of independent, the security services that dominate the Kremlin hope to destroy the independent political life in Russia.
 Without foundations of independent thought, is guaranteeing a climate of fear.
 But fear: not only degrades creates the conditions for a bad government.
 Yeltsin so intuitive understood that fear and centralised decision-making and not top-down were ways to govern a modern country, and consequently insisted on reforming the relationship between citizens and the state.
 Putin still do not understand that a centralized political system is as incapable of understanding and correct errors now as it was in the Soviet era.
 Putin, that is not a man well educated, is leading to Russia, with a deep and sincere belief, the same disintegration that arose in connection with the collapse of the Soviet state.
 The people are beginning to realise this.
 People see that the desire of Putin to create a strong and effective modern state cannot be made real, because a modern state is not ruled from above, but by an informed citizenry forcing their rulers to recognize and correct its mistakes.
 Putin seems also suspect the powerlessness of his regime.
 This is one of the reasons for that Russia has become so aggressive with its neighbours, Ukraine and Georgia, and it seems to maintain a military presence in places like the separatist Transnistria, the region of Moldova.
 To throw its weight on its closest neighbours, the Kremlin thinks that can persuade the Russians its omnipotence.
 Given the castrado that is the debate in Russia, and the ability of the Kremlin to manipulate the elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who wish to preserve the idea of democracy in the country.
 It makes no sense to cling to illusions in vain.
 Those who oppose Putin must decide what they want and declare that, if the regime contravened the Constitution, have the right to force them to do so, by any means necessary.
 At present, the question of power in Russia can no longer be decided solely at the ballot box.
 As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
 Taxes and spending in India
 A tax level too high can reduce the incentives and hinder the growth.
 But too low a level can provide the same result.
 Governments with scarce tax revenues cannot provide basic public services.
 Worse still, the limited tax revenue in poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in tax collection systems (more than the low taxes) also promote the little productivity in companies.
 India illustrates the importance of a well-designed tax collection system.
 In Bangalore, high-tech businesses facilities have been built quality with international meadows well cared and networks of high-speed communication.
 However, outside these installations is drenajes open, rubbish without harvesting and streets in bad state.
 While technology companies instantly terrabytes transmitted information to continents remote, local transport works at a pace almost medieval.
 As a result, businesses in Bangalore have their own bus services, employ private providers of drinking water and generators fitted to protect themselves from interruptions in the electricity supply.
 The state cannot settle the disaster because is bankrupt.
 India's government debt is more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenues are dedicated to the payment of interest.
 But debt is not the result of an excessive expenditure in the past.
 The government spending of India is approximately 15% of GDP, compared to an average of around 40% of GDP in the OECD.
 Rather, the financial difficulties of India arise from a tax system badly designed and badly managed.
 Fees and the rules for the personal income taxes are reasonable and corporate under international criteria.
 However, the Government of India collects income taxes arriving barely approximately 3.7% of GDP, more or less half of what they perceive South Korea and other Asian tigers.
 Agriculture in India amounts to around 25% of GDP, but even rich farmers pay taxes.
 Companies aimed at the export in the software industry, and in other enjoy tax privileges, although their employees themselves pay taxes envelopes their personal income.
 Despite that fees are reasonable evasion is widespread.
 This is happening because the government has not invested in terms of staff or systems for detecting the tax evaders rarely, who go to prison and often can give bribes to break the bind when they catch.
 More subtle, evasion "" direct taxes on income and profits reflects disorder in the system of "" indirect taxes on the production and consumption.
 The consumption tax accounts for more than 60% of indirect taxation of India, which in turn is the same proportion of total tax revenues.
 The basic tax on consumption is set to 16% of the value of the production of a company.
 Then there are several concessions, exemptions and face.
 For example, applies a "rate of rights" dealers 8% to areas such as food products, the cerillos, the hilados of cotton and computers.
 In addition, there is a "special tax of consumption" (IEC) 8% to products which include the strands of polyester air conditioners, cars, and tyres.
 Also applies a "additional consumption tax" (iac, not to confuse with the IEC) to "products of particular importance."
 The consumption tax exemptions are numerous and complex, and include companies with total annual income of less than 10 million and these businesses located in sensitive areas or backward.
 Overall, the exemptions fall into 70 categories, subdivididas in 259 items, 52 conditions and seven lists, each of which contains several articles.
 The exemptions call to abuse.
 By a sum of money, we can convince the lower level officials, who have a considerable discretion to implement the conditions, that to make interpretations favourable.
 Goods with high rates (for example, the toned Granite) sold as goods with lower rates (for example, as unpolished Granite).
 The evasion of consumption tax evasion is more contagious taxes on income and profits.
 If a company evade taxes on consumption and the tax rate is high in comparison with the profit margins before taxes of its industry, their competitors also have to do so, simply to survive.
 As the evasion increases, governments impose additional "rights" or "special" that generate more evasion.
 The collection of direct taxes are also affected.
 Bribery that is paid to the taxman consumption, the difference between the value of Granite and fine-tuning unpolished inaccurate and the reports on income real create funds black "" that cannot be laid at the declarations of taxes.
 In addition to affect the ability of the state to provide basic public services, the tricks to evade also indirect taxes discourage companies to adopt technologies more productive, which require methods with large-scale operations.
 But, because it is easier to evade indirect taxes operating several small units instead of a large, economies of scale can be created.
 It must be stressed that in the software industry, where all units are exempt from indirect taxes, Indian businesses operating on a scale efficient.
 India could emulate the example of China, where the rationalisation of indirect taxes in 1994 created the conditions for a great boom?
 Or does the coalition governments of a vigorous democracy are unable to make this reform?
 Last year, the Government of India, headed by the BJP, adopted legislation that ordered severe cuts in the budget deficit.
 Appointed a special group to make the necessary changes in policies of taxes and spending.
 In July of this year, the group proposed to raise taxes (instead of cutting spending) by, among other things, the elimination of the majority of exemptions of indirect taxation.
 India's new government, headed by the Congress Party also seems to be in favour of these proposals.
 If the Congress Party and the opposition parties the specific, this will be a great step forward to maintain economic growth in the country and to dispel the idea that democracies cannot do what is needed to promote development.
 What is wrong with Turkey?
 On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most famous writers of Turkey, will be presented before a court in Istanbul to face charges of insulting "national identity", having been in favour of an open debate on the Turkish genocide 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and 1916.
 Pamuk can face a judgment of three years in prison.
 Turkey 's attitude of fine and send to imprison those who are not the official line confirms my opposition to open negotiations on its accession as a Member of the European Union.
 In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that would accede to the Union at a future date and not specified.
 Subsequently, the Council asked the European Commission to decide for October 2004 if Turkey had satisfied enough the political criteria - including democracy, the rule of law and respect for the rights of minorities éticas- for membership.
 That decision was one of the last of the Commission under Romano Prodi, of which I was a Member.
 Its 30 members, 29 said that Turkey had satisfied the criteria sufficiently to move in the process.
 I was the only in dissent.
 The Commission report on Turkey, prepared by Günter Verheugen, then was in charge of the enlargement of the EU, was my decision.
 The document mentioned in 2003, over 21.870 presented asylum applications to the EU, of which 2.127 were accepted.
 In other words, the governments of the EU recognized in 2003 that the Turkish government had pursued over 2,000 of its citizens.
 Meanwhile, the Commission published a progress report on Turkey which said that the continued reforms, although to a lesser pace, under the guidance moderate Islamic government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
 However, the report also raised serious concerns: the continued violations of human rights, including torture; the influence of the military remained too high; freedom of expression was not universally; non-Muslim religious minorities and cultural suffered discrimination; and there was a clear and forceful opposition from the power to violence against women.
 There have been many changes since the beginning of the talks on accession to the EU, made in October.
 Beyond the current persecution to Pamuk, abound unacceptable behaviour.
 In March 2005, the police dispersed violently a demonstration celebrating International Women's Day.
 In May, the biggest teachers' was banned by promoting education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.
 Indeed, intolerance goes to the top of the Turkish Government.
 Foreign Minister Abdullah Gül, abruptly cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen when saw a Kurdish journalist among the public and the Danes refused to expel him.
 These actions and attitudes amply justify my disagreement October 2004.
 However, even if they were overcome, Turkey should not be admitted to the EU, because it is not a European country.
 Christianity, feudalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, democracy and the industrialisation we have become what we as Europeans, but have not made the Turks in what they are.
 So I am not convinced that the computer-implemented reforms in Turkey by the insistence of the European Commission will continue after the country finally enters the EU.
 Indeed, I suspect that there will be a step backwards.
 Moreover, the admission of Turkey would lead inevitably to Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
 Indeed, the first three of these countries are more European than Turkey.
 Leaving aside the three Caucasus republics, but including the States that were formerly Yugoslavia, the EU would be around 35 Members.
 What kind of Union would be that?
 The EU is not simply a club of friends.
 It is based on the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.
 The Commission, as guardian of the Treaties of the Union, must protect these four fundamental freedoms, which means that sometimes must persuade, and, if necessary, to force the Member States to change their legislation.
 The policy of Sweden on alcohol, the VW Act in Germany and discrimination against the funds of foreign investment in France are examples of cases that have done unpopular to the Commission.
 But it was necessary.
 For when I left the Commission, had before me a fajo 1,500 of these infringement proceedings.
 In short, EU membership will have to accept measures acute profoundly affecting the internal affairs of a state.
 This will be impossible to do with Members so different.
 The EU will become the victim of what the historian Paul Kennedy called "imperial sobreextensión."
 This would undermine beyond what is acceptable.
 That is why the former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing feared that their income would end up producing a breach in the EU and the German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt declared that "the admission of Turkey would be more of what the EU could bear."
 However, the strongest reason for opposing the accession of Turkey is a matter of democracy: the majority of the population of the EU is simply do not want to.
 The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America
 By it, Bolivia is not a typical Latin American country.
 After Haiti, is the second poorest country in the Western hemisphere, and it is even less stable, with a history marked by more than 200 coups since independence.
 In a region with a strong indigenous past, but with a break and isolated, Bolivia is, together with Guatemala, perhaps the only Latin American country where indigenous peoples constitute the majority of the population.
 Their topography and ethnic divide are generally autonomous, and even act as separatist forces that threaten the national unity in ways more frightening than in any other country.
 And, of course, together with Paraguay is the only nation landlocked on the subcontinent.
 So that it would be highly imprudent to extrapolate the current crisis Bolivia the rest of Latin America.
 It is too simplistic to generalise: institutions in all the other countries are much stronger, poverty (particularly extreme poverty) is decreasing and, to a large extent, the battle for natural resources has been resolved.
 Even in countries such as Venezuela, with enormous reserves of oil and a government of mentality traditionally nationalist, the status quo which allows the foreign investment in energy resources has survived almost eight years of government of President Hugo Chávez.
 Although the existence of indigenous movement is a reality in many countries, in Chiapas to the "araucanía" and the Amazon to ayacucho, no country in Latin America has represented a real threat to national integrity.
 So the Bolivia is not a crisis which mean other in the region, or the vexed "domino theory," held not only by Lyndon Johnson as Che Guevara in the Bolivian case, it seems valid or even halfway reasonable.
 However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of the "democratic deficit" in Latin America at the moment.
 Elected governments have failed, for one reason or another, in Bolivia, Ecuador and Haiti.
 Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is threatened by a reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
 None of these cases is identical to others, as they include varying levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.
 The question is what can be done about this situation, which contrasts markedly with the encouraging prospects that prevailed it just a few years ago.
 In the last Assembly of the Organization of American States in Fort lauderdale, Florida, America took a good idea that others had, and to support it, basically ended with it.
 History began a couple of years ago, when the former Argentine Minister for External Relations Dante caputo and the United Nations programme for the development were in charge of drafting the report on democracy in Latin America.
 Came to the conclusion that an early warning system on crisis of democracy in the region would help generate actions before things were to be out of control, as is the case today in Bolivia.
 Caputo and the UN team persuaded then Chilean President Ricardo Lagos to take the initiative and promote between a number of your colleagues.
 It did, but the issue was not very far.
 Indeed, the UNDP report on democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, barely mentioned.
 The United States and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean insulza José Miguel, resucitaron the plan during the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but it was rejected due to the Latin American reasonable fears that the idea was directed against Venezuela, combined with the anachronistic misgivings of Latin American countries that have been breached the sacrosanct principle of not intervention.
 Despite the continent was unable to reach an agreement on the principle underlying the proposal, the idea of an early warning system deserves attention.
 Today, it is possible that is not what the hemispheric Community can make with regard to what is happening in Bolivia, and yet the situation is fraught with risks for all.
 Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and growers of coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but his followers lack of authoritarian wishes?
 Hugo Chávez may not be bankrolling Morales and the other dissidents Bolivians, but do we really Venezuela and Cuba does not have the temptation to meddle in the country where the Che Guevara died trying to generate a guerilla war for almost 40 years?
 The business community in the region of Bolivian Santa Cruz may not achieve its threat to be separated from the country, but would prefer to share their oil and gas reserves with indigenous peoples of the Highlands, rather than with the Brazilian industrial of São Paulo?
 Before the events can reach these goals, could be a good idea which the OAS (not the US) if it engaged.
 The region still needs such participation, with an appropriate compromise, with message and based on a platform adequate democratic, to distinguish the traditional American intervention of the traditional Latin American indifference.
 The deterioration of France?
 The French are extremely sensitive (not to say that are the defensive) with regard to the stature of their country in the world.
 The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware that the overall position of their country is no longer what once was.
 It is not surprising, then, that during the last presidential elections, the publication of a report by the European Commission, which claimed that economic France had passed from the third to the tenth place between European countries in the space of ten years, has provoked soul-searching and controversies. Shortly afterwards, President Jacques Chirac accused the rival, Lionel Jospin, provoking a "deterioration in France."
 The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that had finished with this aspect of the controversy to demonstrate that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have roughly the same standards of living per capita.
 But the more general debate not subsided.
 The wording again appeared on the "French deterioration" during this year's street protests against the reform of the pension system, the growing on fiscal policy disputes with the European Commission and the disturbances with the United States on the war in Iraq.
 Currently, the best paper sold in France is a piece of controversy nicolas baverez, France qui tombe (the France that falls).
 The book of baverez is full of citations de Gaulle and Napoleon.
 In accordance with the author, the last great achievements of France in the 1970s, with the launch of the fast train, the TGV, and the Airbus.
 Attacked both Mitterrand as Chirac for their "shared talent to win elections and make France a failure."
 The success of the book in itself is a symptom of a type of "unease."
 But what type?
 The evidence degradation that presents baverez are not as convincing as he believes.
 For example, says the loss of industrial jobs as the clearest indication of the deterioration of France.
 However, de-industrialization is common to all advanced countries.
 Indeed, France is doing better than the majority of their rivals rich and, unlike Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has maintained the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector had at the beginning of the 1970s.
 Furthermore, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, foreign investment, France is doing very well.
 According to a recent report by the Council of economic analysis, direct investment in France grew up to EUR 60 billion in 2001, nearly twice in Germany.
 Competitiveness in costs of country also improved (in 20%) in the past three decades, as a more balanced productivity has the rapid growth of wages.
 But the heart of the economic problems of long term of France is precisely the fear losing industrial jobs.
 France remains a strong industrial power in traditional areas such as the automobile and aerospace, but it is rezagando in markets where innovative, smaller companies disseminated new technologies.
 For example, France only invests 30 billion per year in research and development of high technology, in comparison with the 51 billion Germany, the 98 billion 265 billion Japan and the United States.
 In short, the analysis of baverez points in the wrong direction.
 France has gone through a series of reforms of critical importance over the last two decades: economic and financial liberalization, the elimination of controls on prices and the exchange rate, the end of restrictions on credit, low inflation and trade deficits, the arrival of the euro and globalization forced companies in the country.
 The French unease has nothing to do with any of them.
 The problem with France is that fails to recognise the new world of which is already part.
 The French state capitalism has died and France it is hard to accept his death.
 Indeed, France has to be the only country in which a Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, feel obliged to apologise the day after having said on television that "the state is not omnipotent."
 There are many reasons behind this schizophrenia, French, but one of the main concerns the political game of the past 20 years.
 Until 1981, in France had a clear division between left and right.
 Since then, the administrations of both Mitterrand as Chirac changed their ideological positions in order to carry out the difficult process of adjustment to Europe and globalization.
 A "shock therapy" in the style of Mrs.
 Thatcher two decades ago could have forged a new political awareness, but the slowness in achieving consensus to adopt the reforms allowed the French live in a world and thinking in another.
 This is one of the fundamental reasons behind the political disaster that erupted during the last presidential campaign, when the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, came to the second round in elections
 The rise of the extreme left, which was 10% of the vote in the presidential campaign, it is also proof of the political failure.
 France needs a political revolution, rather than an economic, if it wants to be reconciled with the reality, part of which is that the French "deterioration" is a fear that the French themselves have created.
 The value of European values
 European leaders have resurrected constitutional talks that have been suspended last December because of a dispute by voting rights.
 Of course, these disputes are subject to arrangements, which will probably be achieved.
 What is still necessary to establish an understanding of what is clear is that the Constitution succeeds.
 Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: solidarity and subsidiarity.
 Both principles are at the crossroads of philosophy, politics, the economy, sociology and the right.
 Have been here for years in the legal and institutional framework of the European Union - treaties, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights (the quotation in its preamble), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.
 In short, form part of the history and the ideals of the EU.
 But what really mean solidarity and subsidiarity?
 Consider the solidarity, which is open to at least two interpretations: solidarity static, which only has to do with the distribution of income and wealth, and the broader concept of solidarity dynamic, which also relates to the production of income and wealth.
 In the post-war history of European integration, solidarity was dynamic force in the first period (the European Coal and Steel Community), both in its strategy of economic development (reconstruction) as in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.
 This does not mean that the solidarity dynamic to delete subsequently: the European Monetary Union, for example, is another of their expressions.
 So, although some countries do not benefited immediately with the euro, assented anyway because they were convinced that in the long term have positive effects.
 In other words, the solidarity means to promote dynamic policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.
 However, as stated in GDP growth in the EU, the dynamic solidarity has been weakened in the last decade.
 What is most worrying is the delay in research.
 The implementation of the Lisbon strategy, the EU adopted in 2000, and promised to create the most competitive economy in the world is threatened by an ever greater emphasis on solidarity static, which is reflected in the high cost of social security and in the high taxes needed to finance it.
 The predominance of solidarity static must be an ageing population, which, coupled with slower growth, has generated structural fiscal imbalances.
 One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards the elderly on solidarity dynamic that benefit young people.
 After all, the Union cannot allow consumption continues to outperforming the necessary investment to ensure future prosperity.
 Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity in which also has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
 The vertical subsidiarity relates to the distribution of power between the various levels of government and sovereignty: the EU, the Member States, the regions and municipalities.
 The best-known application of this principle is federalism.
 In the European Treaties can find a clear expression of vertical subsidiarity.
 But is it enough to accommodate the institutional and constitutional arrangements that are emerging in the Union?
 The horizontal subsidiarity has to do with the responsibility and the freedom of the human being, and social and economic forces.
 Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
 But society and the market have their own rights and sovereignty, which are not granted by the state.
 Thus, the problem is to ensure the autonomy of each area.
 An example of horizontal subsidiarity is the European internal market, which created a new kind of economic freedom and increased competition between companies to eliminate the protection they are offered national governments.
 The horizontal subsidiarity means that both in the social and economic, the state cannot violate individual freedom and responsibility, which must be respected as much as possible.
 It also means that a "superior power" must give support when individual freedom and responsibility are not enough to achieve the necessary means to human dignity.
 However, this support must be implemented so that promotes the natural potential of individuals, society and the market.
 But this is only possible when the role of the horizontal subsidiarity is clearly defined, which is not in the European Treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the work of the European Convention.
 In short, solidarity has become redistribution instead of growth (which is the way in which the current generation expresses its solidarity with future generations), while the subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, more than a careful demarcation of the borders between state, civil society and the market.
 Today, the definitions of both values encourage the state.
 Indeed, focusing on growth based on the market is often equated with the values semi-ajenos of the United States.
 But these values are deeply rooted in Europe, and we must disabuse them in the light of new.
 The EU must re-establish its economic vitality through a model of solidarity and subsidiarity that is more balanced in favour of the market and society, and that reduces the socio-economic impact of the State.
 The institutions of the State must provide public goods (such as defence, justice and monetary and fiscal policy), society must provide social goods (such as culture, education and assistance to the needy) and the market must provide economic goods (which are connected with the gains, growth and employment).
 In the twenty-first century, Europe must reconsider the value of both principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if it wants to achieve the goal of historic integration: freedom and prosperity required to overcome the differences and political divisions that caused the tragedies of the twentieth century.
 This is the spirit in which must be drawing up the European Constitution.
 The politics of values
 The debate on the US elections has not settled.
 How achieved the President George W. Bush obtain three million more votes than Senator John Kerry and, moreover, an elected Republican majority in both houses of Congress?
 There is no agreement on the answers, but two themes recur in many of the explanations.
 One is the personality.
 In times of uncertainty and threat, people had more confidence in the President that knew that in the candidate who had not yet been put to the test.
 The second issue are the values.
 People voted for a set of values rather than for specific policies.
 In fact, some (says) were in agreement with the policies of Kerry, yet voted for Bush because they felt "to" happy with its general attitude.
 It is clear that the United States are currently deeply divided into electoral terms.
 An arc of blue States (democrats) in the East, the north and west surrounds a huge area (republican red) at the centre and the South.
 Moreover, divisions reproduce at local level.
 It is no longer necessary to draw the limits of electoral districts to benefit any political party in particular.
 The people actually tends to move to areas where majority shares its values, whether Republicans or democrats.
 What exactly are these values?
 They relate, or that is what we hear, with "God, weapons and gay."
 Religion plays a role, including the literal truth of the Bible as regards the history of creation.
 The possession of a weapon is proof of last individualism, and using weapons in wars is not deplorable.
 The practices gay and other modern practices "," are rejected by excessive.
 As the political scientist recently Andrew hacker: "the candidature of Bush was prepared to achieve a majority giving some 60 million people the opportunity to cope with themselves".
 Is all this phenomenon, there is an American or anything similar tendencies elsewhere?
 An answer is that American as a phenomenon, the policy of values can have a majority now, but it is by no means general.
 Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.
 The personality certainly matters, and below open political differences can also be issues of values that have not been to the surface.
 But traditional political divisions based on the disagreement on fundamental values play a role in reducing the elections.
 For example, the Prime Minister Tony Blair, the next leader important to face elections use the argument of personality and speaks of policies, but mainly represents a set of values of middle class.
 When you talk about "modernisation" or "taking things into the 21st century," achieves imply a strange mixture but attractive of change and stability.
 This has left the Conservative opposition without an effective response.
 Even issues such as the tax cuts and stricter asylum laws are not achieve fibers the values that the Republican Party in the United States has managed to.
 The situation is similar in Germany, where the influence of open the politics of values is even less.
 The German debate remains largely a debate of policies.
 When the opposition offers the government talks on the reform of the health system, or more recently on the fight to unemployment, competition is underlying on capabilities, rather than on values.
 However, below the battlefields common political debate in England and Germany and in other parts of Europe shocks marauding of values.
 The parties fighting for those who can be done that "sit well with themselves", but perhaps not fully realize that it only in part, it is a question of policies.
 It is unlikely that religion becoming a central factor in European policy; surveys show that religious observance is one of the few large differences between Americans and Europeans.
 The weapons also have a different place in the minds of Europe; what Europeans see as important is its absence.
 It is also an unmistakeable spate of values pacifists on the continent.
 But the issue of political correctness ("gays") also plays a role hitherto underestimated.
 The most important thing is that Europe itself divides Europeans, as the "national" issue arises in each State of the continent.
 It is a matter of values, inspired by the fear.
 People want to know where it belongs, and in this process are against the United States and Europe or against Europe and towards their country.
 Either way, outside the scope of policies, and even political and we enter the shady domains of symbols and myths.
 This is, in any case, the main risk facing the democratic countries, since the politics of values is a dangerous.
 Reintroduces fundamental divisions in democratic societies whose major achievement was precisely to eradicate the fundamentalism of politics.
 A public debate illustrated must be a dispute on policies framed in a community of values.
 I therefore insist on this is a main goal of the policy of freedom.
 The next was interests
 One swallow does not make a summer, and a month of normal growth of employment and prices in the United States does not mean that the Federal Reserve is no longer concerned about the economic malaise and deflation.
 But the day will come when global interest rates start to rise, as that central bankers prepare to resist the slow upward trend of inflation.
 When that day comes, whether in the autumn, in 2005 or 2006 or 2007-estados united and the global economy will face financial vulnerabilities product of success in the last three years has had the monetary stimulation to stop reductions in production and for restraining unemployment.
 Short-term interest rates are surprisingly low: barely 2% in the euro area, 1% in the US and zero in Japan.
 Expansionary monetary policy has been successful, but only to reduce interest rates to historically low levels - and to persuade investors that the costs of appropriations will remain at current levels for a long time.
 The main outcome of the monetary stimulus has been raising asset prices fixed: anything that produces yield dividends or income is much more attractive, and by the same, much more valuable in terms of money when interest rates are very low and are expected to remain so.
 This explains the huge gulfs between current prices of goods roots in the US, the actions in New York, London and Frankfurt, and the long-term bonds everywhere, and what one would normally that are their fundamental values.
 What will happen when the banks start to increase interest rates?
 In 1994, increases in short _ term rates caused increases in the long term - and falls in bond prices in the long plazo-de at least twice what common models predicting at that time.
 Moreover, interest rates in peripheral economies in development grew much more than the advanced industrial core.
 Thus, the first danger for which we should be concerned with from 2005 onwards - when it is more likely that interest rates eleven-es another wave of financial crises of emerging markets.
 For countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Turkey, Argentina, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand, the record of the 1990s shows that the differences in interest rates can be extended and capital flows can reverse incredibly fast, regardless of that IMF officials and analyses of the largest banks look favourably on the policies of a country.
 The differences in interest rates in emerging markets nowadays are abnormally low.
 International capital flows - including the coming to the eu-todavía are not the level associated with the "irrational exuberance", but there is still time for this to happen before that interest rates start to rise.
 This is an alarming, because the lesson that we have left the 1990s was that no one should overestimate the stability of international financial flows.
 The second danger stems from the high value of the goods in the advanced industrial core.
 The flow of dominant ideology in the Federal Reserve - which I acuerdo-parece be that the revolution informático-tecnológica remains, that the pace of growth potential output in the US is still very fast and that, therefore, the output gap is relatively broad.
 This means that, in fact, it will be necessary interest rates remain low for a considerable period.
 Moreover, the confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and were extracted from interest rates the last vestiges of risk premiums.
 As a result, even after production levels return to their potential, interest rates will remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980s and 1990s.
 All this, of course, are good news for those who own assets such as long-term bonds, actions and real estate.
 Indeed, raise prices in the long term of goods was precisely the objective of lowering interest rates: after all, do more to rich bond holders and above all to the real estate owners is an incentive to spending.
 But the problem is that even if it is to be hoped that interest rates remain low for a time, will not be so low indefinitely.
 The case is that when interest rates rise, the value of goods will fall.
 In these times - particularly when the value of assets fall quickly and realise sustancial-podemos exactly the ability of our central bankers to meet its main task: to reduce financial volatility and promote economic stability.
 In these times we see the number of people who have long-term bonds, real estate actions or not because I believe that the current prices are attractive in relation to the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
 This is a crucial issue for designers of policies, because who purchased long-term goods due to what appeared to be a permanent increase in prices are the same that will sell as the price display be backwards.
 In particular, the trade deficit of the US can be seen as a huge source of instability if prices of goods in the long term fall significantly.
 Certainly the challenges that will face designers of economic policy of the world during the next few years will be different to those who have approached since the collapse of the NASDAQ bubble.
 The risks associated with inflation are perhaps less dangerous than that create the fall of production and the threat of deflation.
 But, as we learned in the 1990s, this does not mean that the challenges ahead will be easier to handle.
 The future of opposing America
 Recently I knew something interesting: American economists of international finance and the American macroeconomistas aimed at local analysis of the US have very different visions (in fact, the opposite) on the probable consequences of the huge current-account deficit of the US.
 Economists of international finance are likely to happen in the United States a financial crisis, followed by recession painful and perhaps prolonged.
 The macroeconomistas directed at local analysis, in contrast, see the imminent fall in the value of the dollar not as a crisis, but as an opportunity to accelerate growth.
 In general terms, see the situation in the following way: at some point in the future, foreign central banks will be less willing to continue buying large amounts of values denominated in dollars in order to underpin the role currency.
 When they have completed their programmes for the purchase of dollars on a large scale, the value of the dollar will fall... and will drop strong.
 However, according to this view, as we shirk the value of the dollar American exports will be doing more attractive to foreigners, employment and strengthen reincorporará labour on export sector, which will live a new stage of boom.
 It will be as what happened in England after he left the establishment of its exchange rate and enabled the pound depreciate with regard to the Deutschmark, or what happened in the United States in the late 1980s, when the dollar depreció against the pound, the Deutschmark (and more importantly) the Japanese yen.
 Economists of international finance see a future much bleaker.
 They see that the end of the programmes for the purchase of dollars on a large scale of central banks will mean not only a dollar decline, but also an upswing in long-term interest rates in the US, that will immediately spending stifle consumption and investment spending after a small tactics.
 There is no doubt that the economists of international finance are also American exports will profit as the value of the dollar fall, but the retardos in demand are such that the momentum will exporter a year or two after the decline in the consumption spending and investment.
 Eight to ten million people will have to change jobs, the services sector and the construction in the sectors related to exports and goods that compete with imports, which means that increase structural unemployment.
 Moreover, there may be a financial panic: the large financial institutions with debts short-term and long-term assets will be in the face of a large increase in long-term interest rates largely denominated in dollars.
 This disparity can cause tensions and financial bankruptcies so easy as the debts of the short term in dollars and the assets in local currency banks caused the during the Mexican crisis and the East Asia in the 1990s, and the crisis in Argentina in the 1990s.
 When economists of international finance describe this scenario, the macroeconomistas directed at local analysis of the US response which sounds like a case of monetary policy incompetent.
 Why the Federal Reserve should allow long-term interest rates have huge increases only because other central banks have completed their programmes of purchase of dollars?
 How should not intervene and replace them with their own purchases of US Treasury Bonds, maintaining that way long-term interest rates at a level that will lead to the full employment?
 To this, economists of international finance answer that the Federal Reserve does not have the power to do that.
 If forced to choose between full employment and price stability, economists of international finance say that the Federal Reserve selected price stability, since its institutional memory of the 1970's, when inflation was the clouds remains very strong.
 Therefore, since a fall in the value of the dollar is rising import prices, and functions as a blow against the supply side of the economy, the Federal Reserve will have to increase, not decrease, interest rates and sell bonds instead of buy them.
 On both sides of this debate is serious economists who respect enormously.
 I am not sufficiently wise as to say what is the right side, but certainly know what I hope that it is wrong.
 The being of Europe
 In the United States, those States that are inadequate fiscal policies are facing a punishment.
 Their bonds are sold with a reduction in relation to the Member States better administered.
 The highest service of the debt that have to pay works -- as true grado-- as a way of discipline against the temptation to spend now and pay afterwards.
 Of course, the market discipline is not perfect: the bond market largely sees passive implicit "no" future (as promised by pension payments).
 However, this fiscal discipline forced, together with the internal budget procedures of each State, has avoided a large-scale fiscal crisis at state level in the US since the great depression.
 I now turn to the case of Europe.
 Before the adoption of the euro, there were many fiscal crisis in the nation States of the south of the continent, which produced waves of high inflation.
 But with the establishment of the single currency was closed the way for the solution of financial crises through inflation, the European Central Bank (ECB) monitors monetary policy.
 However, even if the nation states can no longer rely on inflation to solve its financial imbalances, the single currency allows them to use the capacity for indebtedness that properly belongs to other members of the European Union to continue its adventures of spending and postpone accountability policies for their periods of laissez bons temps them roulés.
 To avoid this possibility, the EU set up the Stability and Growth Pact: government deficits were to be less than 3% of GDP.
 Last week, the government of Germany -- once was the EU Member country more prudent and disciplinado-- broke the rules of the Pact on fiscal discipline for five consecutive year, and did so without large) (apologies.
 The Finance Minister, peer steinbrueck, indicated that it expected the European Commission to impose any sanction to Germany. Said that if there was any measure, the credibility of the Pact would be at risk.
 Therefore, Germany will stifle not sanctions on this occasion, as it did two and a half years ago.
 But steinbrueck also made clear that he hoped that sanctions in response to fiscal deficits forecast of Germany of the annual 3.4% growth of GDP were largely symbolic, and not punishments that cost him his government or to its economy much.
 The Stability and Growth Pact is not working -- or at least not todavía-- remotely as intended.
 And the discipline of the market?
 Is limited the will of the German Government to give more debt and have greater deficits because the market recognises and penalizes the nation states that allow their fiscal positions weakened?
 In a word, not.
 Interest rates of sovereign debt denominated in euros of the twelve eurozone governments are very similar.
 Therefore, the market is not care that different countries have the potential to generate exports to bankroll financial flows needed to pay for the debt or different relationships current and planned debt - GDP.
 Willem Buiter of the University of Amsterdam and Anne sibert of the University of London believe that has been the willingness of the ECB to accept, indeed, all of the debt of the eurozone as a guarantee what has undermined the willingness of the market to act as responsible for have fiscal prudence.
 While a marginal part of the German debt is used as a guarantee for a loan from the short-term or as a basis for an agreement to obtain repurchase liquidity, is much more likely that its value is determined by the terms in which the ECB welcomes the guarantees for its foundations.
 The treatment that now is the ECB to all these debts as sources of liquidity reserve powerful blows any analysis of differences of risk sovereign in the long term.
 In the long run, it is dangerous.
 Both market discipline as tax administration are necessary to create a reasonable chance of achieving price stability in the long term.
 If there is no mention of the market in such a way that we can return reckless or the institutional levers that give voice to future generations, there are no serious risks --tal today or tomorrow, but one day and for the rest of our lives.
 As time passes, the advent of the single currency and the way in which it has implemented the euro are causing ever greater concern.
 The whole policy throughout the euro zone is too deflation.
 They are not doing transfers to the common currency is bearable in the regions that are losing out and that are already in recession when the ECB makes it more restrictive policy.
 The institutional foundations of a stable long-term fiscal policy are being eroded.
 And now, Buiter and sibert argue convincingly, the ECB is giving the market less room for which should have to reward those who save and punish those who expensive.
 There are still not movements of soil, and not the need for some time.
 But the world under the euro could start to knock if things do not change.
 Milosevic and Hussein: the farce as trial
 The trials of war criminals used to be a serious matter.
 Let us remember the pictures of Herman goering and Hess Rudolf sitting, taciturnos on trial in Nuremberg.
 Some leaders Nazis were colgados even after the relatively short but fair trials.
 Currently, the legal process more evil against the leaders of the world have become a farce.
 The trial of Saddam Hussein and his cronies Ba'ath party is a whole raft of shame.
 Defendants used a ruse after another and Hussein shows its contempt for all possible ways.
 It is difficult to wait a result which is legitimate in the eyes of Iraqis or of the world.
 Meanwhile, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic became funeral after four years of testimonies dull and a cost of over 200 million dollars.
 In Cambodia, the UN and the government have almost ten years wavering on the way of bringing to trial Members survivors of the Khmer Rouge.
 The mass murderers who took power in the twentieth century were sentenced to death in popular uprisings or to prosecution for their crimes -- that is, if not died in office.
 Who would be proud that the last Communist leader of Romania, Nikolai Ceaucescu, and his wife were executed without even the slightest appearance of a fair trial?
 The formalities of a real Court always seem to be better than justice snapshot, although the final outcome is also death.
 At present, there are two possible ways of taking action against a tyrant deposed.
 A nation can lead to trial to their own former leaders, as did the Argentines in the 1980's, with the generals responsible for the disappearance of more 5,000 of their fellow citizens.
 At international level, the model of Nuremberg is still available to generate additional trials, albeit under the difficult conditions in which the victorious powers sometimes assigns responsibility for the crimes, as in the case of the "crimes against humanity," which were not properly defined at the time that were made.
 There was a time when you could see the advantages of both the trials of the national and international.
 Domestic trials enabled the Community to alleviate their local sadness at being closely involved in the process.
 As judge and jury, compatriots defendants could also exert greater sensitivity to assess the blame because they understood the harsh conditions in which a dictator deposed had taken its decisions.
 The trial of the generals in Argentina was a ritual successful in the painful transition from the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience there were many doubts.
 Even after the convictions, generals were powerful enough to ensure that the vote trials and then obtain forgiveness by the incoming President.
 The policy of Argentina is still entangled in the legal consequences of those judgments of 20 years ago.
 At international level, the decision of the United Nations Security Council to establish the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) was also received with great confidence.
 The ICTY took into effect founding several decisions under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
 But then, the judges had the misfortune that they fulfill its dream more longed -- judge at the Court archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
 Now it is not clear how the Serbs have dealt with Milosevic in a trial locally.
 It would have been much of the political party to monitor the Court.
 At international level, the fear that there was not enough but policy too law.
 The trial of Milosevic had to be more than just; had to be a symbol of the justice of the UN.
 This is why it is allowed to Milosevic defend itself -- big mistake in terms of the duration and efficiency of the trial.
 There was a limit on the number of witnesses who prosecutors called pay testimony about the same shocking stories of aggression and brutality Serbia.
 Many months will determine what went wrong and why the trial lasted four years, which is a scandal.
 My our bones is that well-meaning officials of the Court was overly influenced by the Commission for peace and reconciliation of South Africa, a model touted in schools of law as the alternative sought to justice.
 In the processes South Africans the most important issue was not the future of the accused, but the past of the victims.
 It encouraged to all the victims to count its history and the accused heard.
 In the case of the massacres in the 20th century, these narratives can take decades.
 To encourage the victims to talk and to the accused after the right to obstruct the process by proclaiming their merits as political leader amounts to a formula for postponement indefinitely.
 A lesson we have learnt from the trials of Milosevic and Hussein is that there should be brought to trial for men or women in order to end their attractiveness charismatic.
 Trastornarán the trial -- especially if they were allowed to defend themselves mismos-- and use the Court to assert their careers.
 To tyrants should only be judged after they have clearly been defeated.
 Ironically, was an advantage for the courts Nuremberg be composed of representatives of the victorious powers.
 They were a constant reminder to goering, Hess and his henchmen that allies had the control and the Nazis were irreversibly defeated.
 The clear objective of the trial was always punish those guilty, not to decide how they would write history.
 The tragedy in cases of Milosevic and Hussein is that history has still not fully and write was ultimately to history itself.
 The indecision resulting from those who were in charge gave rise to --tanto international procedures as nacionales-- that facilitate the fantasies of demands and return.
 In the case of Saddam Hussein, this still fantasy can become a reality.
 The economic divide Iraq
 Those who are Iraq to see a divided nation among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurdish communities.
 But the growing gap between rich and poor in Iraq is equally fundamental, which has contributed to the continuing insurrection as the sectarian struggles and opposition to the occupation led by the United States.
 When Iraq was released, most people, especially the poor, began to hopes to see a charismatic leader that the rescatara of the harsh reality of daily life.
 Having bred with fear, had no idea how could apply democracy to their society and how could help human rights groups and other civic organisations to shape the future.
 Iraq very soon faced a new social division.
 On the one hand, there were comprising people how to operate in a democracy, how to achieve the power and fulfil their ambitions.
 Learn to speak the language of democracy and in the process received money and influence recruited and independent organisations in order to defend their rights and privileges.
 However, on the other side is the huge population of Iraqis without power, including the widows and divorced women and abandoned that they have no who take them and their children.
 For these people democracy and human rights mean nothing.
 Are ignorant, poor and are sick.
 They are victims of an education system which collapsed over a decade ago and there are few skills that enable them to find employment in the ruined economy of Iraq.
 During Saddam's regime is not made efforts to raise living standards of the poor.
 I visited the extensive slums in Iraq and I found families living in homes which are of little ceiling, which are infested with insects and who are loose black waters below the doors.
 Day and night living in the dark.
 These families, who do not need more than food, decent housing and the possibility of having a job, expect the death hearing the terrible cries of their children who are dying of hunger.
 When I met women living in these homes, I flooded with questions: what democracy will give us food and homes?
 How will prevent men golpeen their wives?
 Do you give citizenship to our children?
 How will give us the right of divorciarnos of husbands who leave us?
 My answer to all these questions was "yes".
 Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent home, learn and work and give citizenship to their children and will be equal to men.
 But they must work hard and make every effort to demand their rights.
 They replied: "Saddam taught us for 35 years to be unemployed, silent and frightened.
 What can we do now? "
 In these areas where Habré deprived most Iraqis, people is the temptations bitter.
 Many are beyond the scope of political leaders and government.
 Fall easily in violence, theft and sabotage.
 Poverty leads to some to receive money for acts of violence, instigated by the attractiveness of a false heroism that could not be implemented during the long Saddam's regime.
 Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq that has meant that people will be insensitive to the fact kill.
 Although the current conditions of Iraq are many young people to violence, I am convinced that the only thing that must be done to save them is to jobs and decent dwellings.
 Jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives through a serious work.
 We must not use jobs where no work to disguise an army of unemployed.
 We should give people jobs that would enable them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.
 By nature, each individual seeks to show that a person is useful for their society.
 But culture that Saddam established Iraqis convinced that the only way to obtain authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.
 It will take time to overcome these ideas and an active economy, which means that the new Iraqi Government must take a limited powers to the private sector to grow and at the same time allowing a widespread understanding of democracy and human rights.
 Religious groups are ready to contribute to that process.
 Similarly, we can rehabilitate technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam so that they, too, have the opportunity to serve their country.
 Last but not least, we must provide loans to the families to help build a respectable life.
 Above all, the government must make every effort to convince the Iraqis poor of the value of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the Constitution to meet their aspirations of a better life.
 It will not be easy to achieve that in a country in which many people believe that violate the law is an act of heroism.
 But we Iraqis have also learnt that power should not be concentrated in a few hands and to establish justice requires the fight against corruption in all its forms.
 For the Constitution to function as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, Iraqis poor must learn to follow this struggle.
 The Islamic identity
 Currently, where it is that volteemos, is used and abused Islam (it) as a political force.
 Some Muslims as so-called using it to act; many in the West (and elsewhere) This is perceived as a "other" to contain and ruled out.
 As I experiment Turkish directly both sides of this debate.
 The reason that Islam is a religion in the eyes of the west of the "other" is that in the West has given a systematic destruction of religion.
 Of course, it is not the religion that has disappeared of modern life Western, but what they can do religious institutions on the behaviour of the individual.
 Religion in the modern world is a personal and spiritual experience much more than ever.
 However, it also in Islam is by a process of de-institutionalisation of the experience of religion.
 Politicization of Islam is replacing the authority of the religious establishment, the ulema.
 As in the West, the Islamic religious experience is becoming more staff.
 One of the results is the interpretation of religious texts personally that they are doing Muslims, including political activists, intellectuals and women.
 Another, is the vulgarización of knowledge religious, abusing the lessons of the Koran and out of context support for political purposes.
 Who decides what is right and what is illegal in Islam?
 Who has the authority to interpret religious texts?
 Who can make a fatwa "or" declare "Jihad?"
 Today, the activism and offer terrorism, or rather, a new source of legitimacy.
 Thus, there are unwitting who decide what it means and what does not Islam, without the authority of religious schools and a specialist training.
 Indeed, the Islam is currently interpreted through political players and cultural movements and not religious institutions.
 Deinstitutionalization has allowed Islam from a social bond local and national imaginary to forge links between all Muslims who feel oppressed or displaced people everywhere.
 In this way, Islam can unite followers that were previously deeply divided: Muslims Sufis and the spiritual canonized of the shariat; the Sunnis and Shia Muslims; Conservative Saudi Arabia and the revolutionary Iran.
 At the same time, Islam is shifting, with believers who are coming out of rural areas to go to cities, including those of the West.
 Many see this movement as a negative, and emphasise the fact that these people are socially homeless, which leads to the alienation and, to some to terrorism.
 But social mobility is also a precondition for creating a modern vision.
 Of course, through migration, Muslims are experiencing a sense of alienation, if not rompimiento total, their origins social.
 Thus, his experience of religion is a new type, deprived of theological Community institutions, or state.
 The experience of religion becomes a form of social imagination, within which to rebuild a sense of belonging to Islam in new and strange environments.
 It is not the distance of modern life, but the proximity to her what triggers a return to the religious identity.
 Indeed, the majority of the radicalismos arise in groups which, by their experiences of mobility and movement, know the secular political thinking and urban life.
 Rudderless in its new environment, Islam becomes his anchor.
 But for this anchor works, it is necessary to liberate the Islam of their traditional servile passive position, and obedient to modernity.
 By using a veil or beard, calling for the right to places to the sentence in work or school and to demand special food, Muslims are identified openly as such.
 You are saying to all the surrounding that are more zealous in its meticulous and religious observance that those who limit their religiosity for private life.
 For example, non-Muslims generally considered the veil as a sign of degradation inferiority and for Muslim women.
 However, if a stigma, for Muslims has become a sign of its positive statement of Islamic identity.
 Muslim women young people in Europe perfectly illustrate this transformation.
 Girls who take the pañoleta in their heads in the French and German schools are closer in many respects (namely the youth culture, fashion, and the language) their fellow women class that their mothers, without education and who stay at home.
 By using the pañoleta in the field European public, these girls are changing involuntarily symbol and the role of Muslim women.
 This trend is going beyond the pañoletas.
 All Western Muslims have a dual sense of belonging, a cultural capital double.
 Defined themselves through its religiosity, but also have acquired knowledge secular universal.
 Given that have a dual cultural capital can move with relative freedom between different activities and halls (the home, school, the youth associations and places of urban recreation).
 To be a Muslim and Islamic be is not the same thing.
 What we are witnessing is now a shift of a Muslim identity towards a Islamic identity.
 The for the Muslim religious is a shift of the private sector to the public.
 The question is whether all the search for identity cannot be met with pañoletas and a wide public acceptance of the Islamic religious practices, or if the positive statement of Islam requires a more essential renunciation of modernity.
 A new era for Islamic sciences?
 For some hundreds of years, when science and mathematics passing through a period of major inventions, a region of the world was highlighted.
 There veneraba teachers of these disciplines, medicine progressed quickly and the common people it was interested in the way in which operated nature.
 It is not surprising that this region respected outside globally.
 In the other half of the world were punished known and were even murdered scientists.
 Mathematics were banned because they considered outside religion and later were subordinate to it.
 Living standards were low.
 The prosperous region was the Islamic Middle East, while a Europe ignorant stays in poverty.
 Both regions had religious governments (historians cannot agree on the role and the nature of religions in this context) but science flourished in only one of them.
 Now, of course, the roles of Islamic Middle East and West have been exchanged.
 Since the Second World War, the United States have been the undoubted leader in scientific issues.
 Throughout this period, the brightest students have come out of their homelands attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutions.
 Until recently, more than half of graduates in the fields of mathematics, science and engineering in the United States were born abroad.
 Many of these talents stayed after graduation and both industry and the government took.
 Meanwhile, the Islamic cultures entered a historic stage in the sciences be equipped with a Western influence and avoid.
 Even in those countries where oil revenues could promote a significant amount of research, Arab rulers do not encourage these investments, and as a result of their societies have thrived not everything that could have been.
 Recently, a desire to obtain a greater political respect has encouraged the Islamic nations to invest in technology. Where it is most note that is in Pakistan and Iran's nuclear ambitions.
 But, while these weapons have political clout, the scientific concepts that are old and mundane support.
 More significantly respect that derives from incubate ideas, that the emerging from the products of previous discoveries.
 Imagine the influence that there would be if a Pakistani Institute is the world leader in research on cancer.
 How would change the political rhetoric if researchers of Oman they only discover the key to eliminate aids?
 This is an opportunity which has not been used.
 But there is another, and not only for Islamic societies.
 The United States have made mistakes serious recently.
 The "issues of faith" have replaced the sciences throughout the government, starting with the President.
 Political officials have changed reports of researchers important when the facts contradict official thinking.
 Driven by an administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach of science to the "values".
 Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are more scarce and difficult to obtain, which has diminished the flow of young talent to the American universities.
 The scientific organisations important have protested, without achieving results.
 At the same time, the fiscal laws have been changed to make richer investors in the short term, that discourages long-term investments in research.
 The Iraq war has been spent half a billion dollars, similar to the one that was devoted to support any basic research in the last few thousand years.
 Even if the United States wars of an average age fundamentalist clearly, run the risk of losing its predominance world in the field of research.
 Japan recognized the link between the political influence and sciences in the late 1980.
 The main industrial Japan, akio morita, President of Sony, and political right shintaro ishihara uttered a number of speeches that are recorded and published in 1986 in a book entitled the Japan that can say not (Japan that can say no).
 Esbozaban a national strategy in which it was understood that the global influence accorded by the scientific leadership.
 The central idea was that military power could be made obsolete if other nations control "the food chain" of military technology.
 The title of a book relates to the plan Japan to say "no" to the military influence of the United States once Japan controlled key military technology.
 Building a knowledge-based economy using oil wealth is clearly possible.
 For example, Texas, like the majority of the southern states of the United States, once was economically poor and was in decline.
 Although had oil revenues, the flow of dollars to an economy does not in itself increases prosperity both as might be imagined.
 That is why Texas decided to devote their money from oil to a fund education.
 Today this fund is roughly equal to that of Harvard University and is shared between 15 universities.
 The effect has been impressive: aerospace manufacturing almost disappeared in California, but are flourishing in Texas.
 A multitude of centres and telecommunications companies have been mudado into Texas, even of the Canadian giant of telecommunications nortel.
 Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, Texas has one of the strongest manufacturing economies in the world.
 There is no reason why it was not possible to arrive at the same result in the Middle East.
 But first, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a legacy of which must be proud of.
 The debate on Iran on Iraq
 No country in the Middle East is more pending the events of the war in Iraq that Iran.
 The geographical proximity, intense and bloody history of conflict with Saddam Hussein's Iraq, religious and emotional connections with Iraq and Shiite worries about the United States and its policies in the region are all the ties that bind Iran with its neighbor West.
 Given the ongoing tensions with America, Iran is particularly concerned about the likelihood that Americans will establish a permanent basis in a neighbouring country, as well as the dominant role of the US in determining the future of Iraq pos-saddam.
 To those outside the country may be difficult to internal debates Iranians, but these do exist and are intensive, although not always be visible to the international public more general.
 There are three general approaches that can be recognized in the current debate about the Iranian Iraq pos-saddam.
 Pragmatists Iranian inevitably argue that Iran will have to cooperate with the US, at least to ensure the rights of the Iraqi population Shi'ite.
 For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that new leadership in Iraq would not be hostile, and should seek bilateral relations friendly.
 Other considerations vital to the pragmatists are the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees living in Iran.
 Those Moderates believe that the government of Iran should put pressure on the US to achieve the extradition of the members of the mujahdin-e Khalq Organisation (MKO) that are based on Iraq, as well as the total dismantling of this group.
 In exchange, the government of Iran should give its support for the preservation of peace, stability and security in Iraq.
 In sum, pragmatists would limit the tradeoffs between Iran and America, keeping them focused on a programme reflecting mainly internal preoccupations of Iran.
 The conservative forces in Iran majority support this position.
 Another position by a more active role and cooperative of Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.
 Advocates of this vision argue that Iran is in a good position to make the reconstruction easier, owing to its infrastructure well-established personal and institutional ties in Iraq.
 Sooner or later, argue, the US and the international community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
 The Iranian cooperation should pay with the dismantling of the infrastructure of MKO in Iraq, perhaps joined the Iranian commitment to increase its efforts to put an end to any activity of Al Qaeda, as well as to expel of Iran to its Members.
 More importantly, Iran should press for the us given the safety of its cooperation will take as the American mutual guarantee that Iran will not be the objective of a US military action in the future.
 In short, the advocates of cooperation are calling for an open and explicit negotiation: Iran's support for the stability during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the government learning that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position of regional and international Iran.
 This vision is very popular among Iranian reformists (both inside and outside the government) and the sort technocratic and trade with mentality more international.
 Finally, for the Iranian radicals, the possibility of establishing relations of cooperation with the US is a pure fantasy.
 They think that America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
 From the point of view of the radicals, the least that America is expected major changes in the Iranian foreign policy.
 And what more we propose the Americans, they argue, is pressing for a change of regime in Iran.
 The us to undertake initiatives against the acquisition of knowledge and nuclear energy by Iran, and may even try to undermine the general military capacity of Iran.
 These are the radical us invasion of Iraq as a reflection of the American desire of the wall to Iran.
 In response, believe that Iran must defend their interests in an active way, forming strategic alliances with Russia and other regional powers and using Iran's influence in Iraq to prevent a government in Baghdad emerges pro-American and antiiraní.
 The radicals of all factions support this vision.
 The overthrow of Saddam's regime was the easy part of the Iraqi crisi.
 This is the difficult: to consolidate peace and security, to win the war against terrorism and convince the Muslim masses that the US has no intention of occupying Iraq, seize its oil and redesign the Middle East to its image and similarities.
 Meanwhile, it is likely to increase the opposition to America, expressed in suicide bombings and other forms of terrorism.
 Iran is designed to continue to play a regional role of first importance, because its political dynamism and their Muslim identity ringing widely in the Muslim world.
 What happens in Iraq will have implications of first importance to Iran, and America is well advised to look for ways of recognizing this fact.
 The threats Americans, or speculation about another war, inflame the flames of resentment and frustration in Iran, strengthening the forces more radical.
 If America wants to avoid this outcome, must consider limit the influence of their own radical, recognizing that American interests in Iraq benefit from greater cooperation with Iran.
 The departure of Iraq
 It has finally been reached the point where we in Iraq tode the world ostensibly wants to the same: the removal of the country of the coalition forces.
 The recent leak of a document by British Ministry of Defence on the withdrawal of troops highlights this wish.
 The only question is how satisfacerlo.
 While the coalition forces remain there, it is likely that the violence increases.
 But if they are, will also increase, but faster.
 Thus, the real question is how to achieve the point where Iraq with a police and an army to which we can rely the maintenance of law and order.
 It must be done to even closer.
 Despite the value of the many Iraqis who enter the army or police, it is no surprise that some may have reason that they will not be so cigars.
 In northern Iraq are saldando old scores and has introduced a de facto ethnic segregation in areas such as irbil which have traditionally diverse.
 In other areas has been introduced by force Sharia law.
 How, then, can create uniformed Iraq services to which we can rely law enforcement efficiently and impartial considerations without ethnic, religious, or of gender?
 The traditional response is recruiting, training and impress the "correct values."
 But there is not enough time for that.
 We need other methods.
 In the absence of a system of values deeply rooted, Iraq needs civil society organizations that make the police and army accountable.
 Could take different forms, but what is important is that really be inclusive locally and that they receive support of power structures, regional and national vote tallies provided by precinct when have indicated that there are abuses.
 If there is a local scrutiny and strengthening national and recognition of the value of this scrutiny, then it is likely that the majority of Members of the uninformed forces behave properly -- and to be able to identify and punish more easily if they do not.
 This might appear too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country similar to Iraq in many respects, there are groups that are working to achieve that goal.
 The partnership for peace and unity (cpau) is a model of the way in which this can be done.
 In Afghanistan, as in Iraq, the priority of common people has been a reduction of violence.
 The cpau worked throughout the country during the last three years to establish peace committees at the level distrital, supported by satellite Councils of peace in the peoples.
 The initiative faces a culture in which violence is so ingrained that children learn arithmetic count the number of Soviet soldiers dead.
 Therefore, the committees look to all sectors of the Community -- including teachers, tribal leaders and religious women, police, soldiers, judges and empresarios-- work together to devise non-violent ways to resolve disputes.
 Although the supervision has not been a formal part of the role of the committees until now - are expected to be so in the future), the simple fact that the police, the army and the judiciary is part of these committees puts them in contact with the rest of the Community, provides feedback loops and begins to build confidence.
 Some results are clear.
 In a workshop, the local military commander attended a couple of hours per courtesy and ended preferring the whole week.
 The end apologised for his violent pasts and undertook to disarm his private army of 2,000 Members.
 Now regularly visit the offices of the Committee.
 In Iraq, projects such as the heart of humanitarian link in Kirkuk are beginning to meet a supervisory role in offering the local population, ethnically diverse, the opportunity to present their complaints and receive aid to resolve them.
 But all too often, even when there is a court judgment, this does not apply to cause of intimidation.
 American and British forces have already done much good work to strengthen civil society.
 We hear talk about the workshops to empower women or the organisation successful elections of small scale throughout the country.
 But to mobilise civil society is a huge challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, needs to be done quickly and on a large scale.
 Military force is still needed, but so too are the incentives to lay down their arms, including prospects of economic opportunities that are more profitable crime and extortion.
 Fortunately, build capacity for civil society is as cheaply as important.
 The heart of humanitarian liaison responds to all Kirkuk to an annual cost of just 75,000 dollars.
 With $10 million could replicate these centres 100 times onerous -- and fairly.
 The challenge is to commit to this approach, strengthen and give its full support to the courageous people facing the challenge of held accountable to power.
 In other words, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people will have the certainty that, after many years of suffering, urgently needed.
 Can democracy in the Nile?
 The triumphal surprise Egyptian President Mubarak hosni's decision to propose a constitutional amendment that would have direct presidential elections and competitive may be a giant step for democracy in Egypt and the Arab world.
 Westerners accustomed to pluralist democracy, they may be difficult to understand the enormity of change potential that this may mean in a country accustomed to military government for more than 50 years.
 Under the current system Egyptian citizens can only be presented the day of a presidential referendum every six years and vote in favour or against the only name on the ballot.
 This explains why someone like Mubarak was always more than 90% of the vote, although it has been with participation indifferent.
 The leaders of Syria and Iraq has gone even better with this system, without doubt because demanding that the names and addresses some voters to calce every vote.
 Many have argued for some time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not progress until that Egypt commit itself fully with the process.
 Egypt could not really set out on the road to democratization without reforming its first Constitution -- fit for pharoahs reducing the powers of its President and to limit their period of government.
 After all, Mubarak is already 24 years as President.
 Therefore, the announcement that it wants presidential elections competitive is an important first step.
 The regime can assume that will use the process to their advantage, but perhaps the events are not so easy to monitor when people start to feel that has the power.
 The genius of democracy already came out of the bottle.
 In any case, Egypt is not the only country in this troubled region that feed the path to democracy.
 Turkey, on one side of the Middle East, and Morocco, on the other, are already quite advanced.
 This time, the real impetus stems from the closeness and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and, to a lesser extent, Saudi Arabia.
 The unprecedented demonstrations against the Syrian occupation in Lebanon, after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq al-hariri, give no signs of calm down.
 Also opposition groups Egyptians have done increasingly marches bold and other forms of civil disobedience in recent weeks.
 The catalyst for their rage was the arrest of patients opposition leader Ayman Nour at the end of January.
 The conduct of heavy hand of the government revitalizó the local kifaya movement "" (enough), which called for the end Mubarak's regime.
 Suddenly, the popular conception that Egyptians are passive and fearful to act does not seem to be true.
 Is forming an alliance of local, regional and international forces against the tyranny of "always" the riverbanks Nile.
 The recent wave of popular pressure seems to have shaken the regime.
 Barely a month ago, Mubarak desechaba the demands of constitutional reforms pronouncing them in vain.
 But anyone who has been the combination of elements which led him to change their minds, must be welcomed the initiative for the elections.
 It is a first necessary step -- but insuficiente-- to reinvent the stagnant political system of Egypt.
 The Egyptians are already suspicious of symbolic reforms in the style of Tunisia, where President Zine the abidin bin Ali, with a long time in power, created a caricature of constitutional amendment which seemed to open the door to the competitive elections, then to create an electoral farce with some "opponents" chosen by him.
 In previous presidential referenda, bin Ali received normally 99% of the vote. This time obtained 96%.
 Let us hope that Mubarak taken more seriously electoral reform.
 As a sign of sincerity, has to organise the immediate release of Ayman Nour and take steps to put an end to the state of emergency which deprived over 24 years and to prevent in deeds carried out presidential campaigns.
 Mubarak must also support a limit of not more than two consecutive periods of five years for any President.
 Confidence-building measures are equally necessary and include the open, fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the state.
 I announced that I intend to play the forthcoming presidential elections as a way to open the debate on these essential reforms.
 But with regresaría taste in my life of citizen once they ensure free and open elections in the autumn.
 If applied seriously, these measures will transform the legacy of Mubarak.
 Together with the events in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine, may well open an Arab spring of freedom that should have come a long time ago.
 A historic election in Egypt?
 The Egyptians pass through the ballot box on 7 September to elect a president of the ten candidates, including those who have been for 24 years, hosni Mubarak.
 Although little doubt that the result will be the re-election of the latter, many are passionately following the process.
 6000 national observers have received training to these elections and hundreds of foreign reporters are converging in the country this week.
 Although all the details formal a real election campaign are present, important aspects of authenticity are conspicuous by their absence.
 Despite the promises made in the opposite direction, the playing field is far from being the same for everybody.
 Mubarak continues with assets disproportionate: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly on the electronic media controlled by the state and 85% of the print media.
 A week before the elections, some opposition candidates have still not been able to table an announcement electoral Egyptian television.
 All the members of the Committee of the presidential elections have been appointed by Mubarak and the new electoral rules have eliminated all candidates independent.
 Since the year 2000, 8 judges in Egypt must supervise and certify the election results, according to a resolution of the Supreme Court.
 It was an important step towards the holding of elections fairer, because the professional association of the judiciary has followed with quite independence, despite attempts of executive power of arrebatársela over half a century.
 So that the Mubarak's regime has had to resort to various stratagems to neutralise the association of the judiciary.
 One was the possibility of extending the definition of 'judiciary "to include thousands of employees loyal to the government that are titles of lawyers, but not judicial experience, which leaves the real unarmed judges, because, if protesting boycotting their supervisory duties, the task will fall once again in the police's infamous Ministry of the Interior.
 So, in the past, the association of the judiciary Amen used to say, with the expected results.
 In the parliamentary elections in 2000, while the Mubarak's ruling party was 38% of the popular vote in the districts overseen by the real judges, this percentage became nothing less than the 86% where supervision flowed from the cuasijueces.
 This year that seems to be very different.
 In the spring judges had a national assembly and decided that, unless the regime to grant them full independence and supervision exclusive to the voting process, not supervisarían the coming presidential vote (or parliamentarians).
 On 2 September presented their demands the end: to allow civil society groups observe the voting process, ending the interference in the definition of judges legitimate with a view to the elections and access to the permanent presence of a judge legitimate in front of each of the ballot box until that has been counted, and communicated certificate its content.
 Until now, it is likely that the situation is a blind alley, because the chairman of the electoral commission has stated publicly on television that Egyptian rejects the supervision of the electoral process by all citizens.
 Another novelty interesting on the eve of the elections is a bitter public debate on whether to vote or boycott the presidential elections.
 Various opposition parties have asked its members not involved: to protest against a restrictive electoral rules that are enormously to Mubarak.
 Moreover, the Muslim Brotherhood, considered the group of opposition stronger Egypt, are urging his followers to go to vote and to do so in good conscience, but not to support any "and corrupt ruler despotic."
 It is a clear, although implicit, repudiate Mubarak's ruling only 24 years.
 Thirty-four civil society organisations are preparing thousands of young Egyptians to observe the elections, despite the repeated objections of government.
 These groups argue that, if the regime does not intend to rig the election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process should not be a problem.
 The response of the regime is that any foreign supervision is a violation of the Egyptian national sovereignty and observers are an affront to the integrity of judges.
 This argument was negated quickly when the association of the courts announced that supported the presence of observers of civil society.
 Whether the Mubarak's regime is frightened to the demands of internal and external increase to hold free and fair elections or is simply unable to cleanse the party of their natural tendency to corruption, the current signals are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.
 Meanwhile, Egyptians are experiencing for the first time the emotion to challenge the tyranny and enjoy a new-found space for freedom.
 The envy of Europe towards the dollar
 The coins can become the focus not only of commercial transactions, but diplomatic disputes and policies.
 When that happens, commercial transactions are made more difficult and are subject to greater uncertainty.
 Politicization of money during the interwar depression was economically devastating.
 But there has been most recent cases of struggles perverse of coins.
 In the 1960s, the international monetary order became the focus of a political guerrilla warfare.
 Each side had theories and explanations contemptible about what was happening.
 Europeans (in particular, the French) they complained about what the general Charles de Gaulle called the "exorbitant" privilege of the US dollar.
 The general and its monetary gurú, Jacques rueff, argued that the US used the dollar's status as the main reserve currency caused by the fixed exchange rate regime Bretton Woods to take deficits and pay its military adventurism abroad (at that time, Vietnam).
 France was called to a currency reform to do away with the peculiar role of the dollar and try to revive the gold standard, for then very discredited.
 Europeans began a long discussion about the benefits of Monetary Union, which would allow them to look to the dollar face to face.
 However, from the point of view, the international role of American dollar was a trap.
 Other countries could change their exchange rates and this gave greater competitiveness to its exports.
 The US Government was powerless faced with a yen devalued, which feed the belief that the rest of the world used to attack the dollar's manufacturing base of the US.
 The Nixon administration came to the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was monetary unilateralism: monetary expansion, so radical that other countries are forced to adjust their exchange rates.
 These battles, long forgotten, have become suddenly very topical.
 The world is no longer a fixed exchange rate regime, and the dollar remains the main reserve currency, a species floating Bretton Woods.
 For the Americans the role of reserve of the dollar is a potential threat, while for the rest of the world is another example of the hegemonic neoimperialista ambitions of the US.
 In this decade, China has taken place of Japan in the 1960's, maintaining its exchange rate under to stimulate growth of its exports.
 Consequently, is the target of complaints by the US by unfair competition and its efforts to make an adjustment of the exchange rate to do that Americans stop buy toys, appliances and manufacturing clothes China.
 The manufacturers of America have decided that the underwear China constitutes a threat to the American life-style.
 Meanwhile, Europeans (especially the French) complain about the large deficits of the US and it is fashionable again the argument de Gaulle that the rest of the world is paying the wars of the US.
 Some Europeans suggest that Asian central banks should play a greater part of their reserves in euros, which is an echo of the failed attempt of general to sell us dollars and received gold.
 The 60 ended in a breakup of "system" and an important financial turbulence, accompanied by an increase of inflation commodity prices.
 All were injured, and the role of the US in world affairs received a major blow.
 If now, a similar collapse would probably different.
 The current floating rate system is stronger and the costs of the adjustments distributed differently.
 The majority of Americans are not too by the strong dollar collapse, because the sellers of foreign goods must tailor their prices for the US market.
 The Asian economies are growing robustly and their central banks are accumulating titles of debt of the US.
 It is possible to continue with this policy, because the alternative would be a sudden downturn in the competividad of their export sectors important in the US market.
 This gives America more time to deal with a current-account deficit that, in the long term, is unsustainable.
 The regions of the world, economically dynamic North America and Asia, are then tied by a pact which will ensure the continuity of the central role of the US dollar.
 The Americans will accumulating debt, if you so wish to Asians.
 Break the Pact would go against the interests of both sides.
 This is not American unilateralism, which means to work with Asia.
 But for Europeans, who are excluded from the Pact, this is seen as a unilateralism monetary and economic.
 Meanwhile, the rise of the euro against the dollar creates major hardships for European manufacturing exporters.
 However, Europe cannot do much to ease the situation.
 Indeed, will be the main damaged struggles of the new currency.
 The answers that were raised in the 60 (resurrect the gold standard, or the invention of a common European currency) no longer seem to be very useful.
 Having a single currency has not provided a substantial protection.
 The old version of the European response, what psychologists call "envy of the dollar," will not even worse.
 There will be called the European Central Bank to extend your monetary base, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all problems, structural and demographic industrial affecting Europe.
 But a moment's reflection we should remember that the probelmas of Europe cannot be solved by monetary manipulation.
 We must see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privilege of America as what they are: a way of countering the fundamental lack of power of Europe.
 So the envy of the dollar is here to stay, and will increase even more as the international value banknotes Greens is falling, without appreciable adverse effects on the people that the print and uses.
 An epidemic of policy
 The Americans, as the citizens of many other countries of the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some public officials.
 A few surprises us (although some discourages them) that are given a charge of federal judge or diplomatic high level of a candidate who happens evidence of loyalty on principles which are important for the party of President or the Prime Minister.
 But almost everyone agrees that the sciences are something else, and in this, the United States are becoming a sobering example for the rest of the world.
 The scientists appointments should be based on objective criteria of training, capacity and performance.
 Of course, there is a legitimate question a future Secretary and human health services (ssh) on its position on abortion.
 But to test of political loyalty to those who have been appointed to participate in scientific advisory committees is totally out of place.
 In the same way, membership in the bodies carrying out the revision of the scientific proposals peer-review (process that is fundamental to scientific progress) certainly should be free of barriers which do not relate to the professional qualifications.
 Unfortunately, scientists in the US are increasingly finding themselves involved with barriers of this type.
 Last autumn, the Journal science published several articles relating to this issue.
 One narraba the replacement of the members of the Advisory Committee of the National Centre for the environmental health, which forms part of the centres for the prevention and control of diseases (CDC), without consulting the director of the centre.
 Other similar cases occurred in the advisory committee on lead poisoning and prevention, the advisory committee on protections in research human and the advisory committee on genetic testing.
 The epidemic of current ideology, closing or new Member reconstituyen with the advisory committees and the candidates for evidence of loyalty is nothing new for some observers.
 Ssh officials say that it is "a quite common practice."
 Well, it is not a common practice in the United States, or at least not it used to be.
 In any case, what is truly worrying is not that the Bush administration examine the candidates to see whether they are compatible with their "values."
 What is more alarming is the depth that have reached the findings on ideology, which are invading areas that were once immune to this kind of manipulation.
 Indeed, perhaps the most revealing of the growing epidemic policy was the changeover of staff of the section of studies of the National Institute for health and safety at work, which evaluates scholarships to study injuries in the workplace.
 It may be that the advisory committees have been vulnerable in the past occasional moves of this kind.
 After all, are those who recommend guidelines that politicians may or may not be taken into account.
 But sections of study?
 In October 2002, science published an editorial signed by David michaels and a group of colleagues.
 Several were former distinguished public servants who had participated in some of the committees in question, and offered a valuable perspective on the matter, based on their personal experiences.
 Article in itself was interesting, but what happened after it was even more.
 Triggered a barrage of letters of scientists relataban similar experiences.
 A candidate for membership of the Committee coordinator of research on alive, belonging to the national institutes, who was a member of staff of the White House the was questioned.
 After several answer questions about their views on various policies of the Bush administration, none of them associated with the work of the committee, were asked whether they supported the policy of President on embryonic stem cells.
 In another letter, a distinguished Professor of psychiatry and narró psychology that he had received a reminder of the White House about his nomination to participate in the National Council on the abuse of drugs.
 The person who telephoned him informing him that had to be investigated for "determine whether had views that could prove embarrassing for the President."
 According to Professor, the official of the White House, he was several questions and bore the mind.
 One example: "You are two of three; the President opposes needle exchanges (for the intravenous drug users) on moral grounds, regardless of the outcome."
 Later, the exchange was changed more chilling.
 The official asked to nominated if they voted for Bush, and to hear that do not asked: "Why do you not supported the President?"
 That is happening in dictatorships, not in democracies.
 The objective of a scientific advisory committee is to give advice balanced and thoughtful for the process of political decisions.
 There is nothing to be gained from - and much pierde-cuando puts ahead will be the result of policy that one wants to.
 That is why it is that decisions about what research projects will always support have been taken on the basis of studies by peers, not political.
 Indeed, the Statute applicable to this - the federal law of committees consultivos-exige specifically that the committees are balanced and that "are not unduly influenced by the authority that the appointed."
 The Secretary of human health services and the US, Tommy Thomson, and the office of staff of the White House should set an example to the rest of the world.
 We can do very easily: in accordance with the law.
 A murder in Moscow
 It is time to put an end to the fiction that "the dictatorship of law" of Putin did that Russia was less anarchic post-comunista.
 The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and most courageous journalists of Russia, a woman who dared to expose the brutal murder committed by Russian troops in Chechnya, is the final proof that President Putin did not do more to offer a dictatorship commonplace, with the usual contempt for the law.
 It is right that the world, particularly in Europe, take account of this acceptance.
 The Ministry of Foreign Relations of Germany is producing a policy on Russian relations will / German cult of indifference to the illegality of Putin in the national interests of the most powerful Member of the European Union.
 But the indifference becomes appeasement when encourages Putin to enforce its anarchic form in the international arena, as in its current campaign to muzzle the economy of Georgia.
 The assassination of Politkovskaya frightful generated a feeling of déjà vu: as in the heyday of the KGB, people just disappears in Putin's Russia.
 The assassination of Politkovskaya is the third death with political contours in three weeks.
 Enver ziganshin, the main engineer Russia BP, was murdered with a firearm in Irkutsk 30 September.
 Andrei Kozlov, the Vice-Governor of the Central Bank of Russia that lideraba a campaign against financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.
 The fact that the prosecutor of Russia, general Yuri chaika, there is the investigation into the murder of Politkovskaya, as it did with the murder of Kozlov, not generates hopes, as would a participation to high level in any real democracy.
 Indeed, the participation of the highest level of the government of Russia is almost a guarantee that there was never the murderers.
 The assassination of Politkovskaya is a particularly grim omen if one bears in mind that was a severe criticism of the President of Russia.
 In its articles on one of the few remaining independent newspapers in Moscow, novaya gazeta, and in his books "Putin's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "dirty war in Chechnya: Russian Reporter '" (a dirty war: a Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote about the dissipation of the freedoms that it is the mark of identification of Putin's Presidency.
 As is shown by the exile of the media former entrepreneurs Boris berezovsky and Vladimir gusinky, and the incarceration of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, three destinations lie ahead for the enemies of Putin: the exile, imprisonment or grave.
 I am not accusing the Putin government the murder in the pay of Politkovskaya.
 After all, as investigative journalist offending many people in addition to Putin, including, nothing less than the current Prime Minister, Ramzan Chechen Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.
 But even if the partners of Vladimir Putin does not have nothing to do with the assassination of Politkovskaya in the lift his department in central Moscow, the President 's disregard for the law led to the climate in which perpetrates manslaughter.
 As the murder of Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Beckett in its Cathedral many centuries ago, the crime was committed in the clear conviction that would like to the king.
 Compared to what Politkovskaya -- represented the responsibility of a democratic press of questioning the Kremlin and its nature, the government should have ensured that nothing wrong I.
 Putin's Russia already lost 12 prestigious journalists who were murdered in the last six years.
 None of these crimes has been solved, which would not be the case if the "dictatorship of law" of Putin is something other than a strategy of public relations.
 The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came to the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals.
 On the one hand, the world sees a leader young and educated which promises to modernize Russia, particularly in terms of align their judicial and law enforcement with international standards.
 On the other hand, the President observed in silence while their former colleagues in the security service FSB (the former KGB) Russia does not offer any security for the murdered and fire a number of the causes of espionage notable against journalists, scientists and environmental activists.
 Between these "neo spies" contains the journalist Grigori Pasko, the expert on arms control, the diplomatic Igor Sutyagin Valentin moiseyev, the physicist Valentin danilov and others.
 The supposedly civilising influence a Western partner -- to preside over a G-8 summit in St. Petersburg, for example - seems to have been allayed in the Kremlin intrigue of Putin.
 Once again, exposure to Western values generated another town; Russia presents a Potemkin facade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the cardboard decorated govern the same beasts arbitrary.
 The danger for the world is that the anarchy of Putin is exporting.
 Throughout the near abroad, Russia is lacking; a form of diplomacy criminalized.
 We look at the attempt to Putin fraudulently to manipulate the previous presidential elections in Ukraine and the intermittent criminal charges filed against the opposition leader yuliya Tymoshenko.
 Let us look at the separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia that exist only thanks to the support of the Kremlin.
 We look at the way in which the Kremlin tries to blackmail their neighbours threatening to interrupt their energy supplies.
 All police knows that when it ignores the criminal behavior criminals, become more extreme.
 It is time for the world to recognise Vladimir Putin for what it is: a man who is retrotrayendo to Russia in the shadows.
 So that the world today must consider the ancient maxim in Latin tacet qui consentere videtur -- the silence implies consentimiento- and wonder whether it is wise to consent to silence the construction that Putin of an energy superpower without law.
 The Russian gas pipeline towards the empire
 Gerhard Schroeder, who to less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that is building a gas pipeline from Russia, via the Baltic Sea to Germany, and from there to Western Europe.
 In many countries, Schroeder is now will be guilty of the crime of conflict of interests.
 Its apparent lack of ethics is growing by the fact that, at this precise moment Russia is threatening to cut off gas supplies to Ukraine if that country does not yield to the demands of the price of gas giant owned by the Kremlin, Gazprom.
 The strategic role of Russia is obvious: to interrupt gas supplies to Ukraine also means interrupt much of the gas to Europe, because some of its larger pipeline through Ukraine.
 To avoid Ukraine, Poland, and, of course, the Baltic countries, the new gas pipeline promises to give greater influence the Kremlin in their pursuit of reposition themselves regionally.
 President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of former KGB soon will not have to worry about Western Europe when they are deciding what so strong pressure on the Postcommunist neighbors of Russia.
 Europe should really give Putin this new imperial weapon?
 Or, worse, Russia could use this weapon against the European Union addicted to energy?
 The fact that a former German Chancellor will lead the company that can give Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is testimony to the dangerous complacency Europe neo-imperial ambitions of Putin.
 Indeed, Russia's media realize the Europe of growing dependence on Russian energy.
 Indeed, are feasting themselves with it: after to integrate and increase our common business gas, written by the editorialistas Russians, Europe keep silent on human rights.
 Putin expresses this position more oblicua with its commitment to implement what he calls a "independent policy."
 What you mean by that is that Russia must be "independent" of the moral concerns and human rights of Western democracies.
 Perhaps some European leaders really believe that the comfortable maintain the prosperity of the Union justifies silent on human rights and other issues which upset the Kremlin.
 Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, on matters "trade as" the expropriation of YUKOS, but if the Kremlin is a price to our values or criticism of the faults committed by Russia -- in, for example, the Chechnya their bloody Europeans seem willing to shut up to face up to the possibility of a rise in energy prices, or even a blockade and the Ukraine now faces.
 As Putin reordena his court, subordinating the Duma to their will, the hopes of the European Union greater Europeanization of Russia should be abandoned.
 Putin's Russia is building has mutated post-Soviet the hopes of freedom to a bastion of gas and oil to its new former KGB elite.
 Indeed, warnig Matthias, the chief executive of the association of the gas pipeline that Schroeder will, it is a friend of long Putin.
 The Wall Street Journal reported at the beginning of this year that warnig, who heads the Russian branch of the Dresdner Bank, agent of the Stasi, secret police of eastern Germany, and Putin met at the end of the 1980's, when the Russian President was in East Germany as KGB spy.
 The fact that the Russians tolerate a government with ex-KGB men, for whom the lack of compassion and intolerance dissent is the rule, reflects its exhaustion of the excitement of the last twenty years.
 Now the Kremlin appears to believe that what is good for ordinary Russians is good for the independent countries: the small and weak countries are not will take compassion once Russia gets the tools to intimidate them, and threatening isolate them with the possibility of a blockade energy.
 As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
 The European Union has signed many agreements with Russia, including one of "common space" to freedom and justice.
 The Kremlin is very good to pretend that idealism.
 Its control of Eastern Europe will always be imposed on the basis of "treaties of friendship," and the Soviet invasions in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968 missions were "fraternal."
 But we must see how Putin abuses of this space "common": the brutal treatment to the Chechens, the employer Mikhail Khodorkovsky in prison, harassment of NGO's, the false accusations against the colideresa the Orange Revolution last year, yuliya Tymoshenko, by Russian military prosecutors.
 If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom must recognize that these values are not shared by officials of the Kremlin's fear of Putin.
 The same applies when we consider Russia as an ally in the fight against terrorism.
 Is it really conceivable that the land of "red terror", with countless crimes without punishment of the Soviet era, and which carries traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, will provide a reliable aid to stop threats to the world of Iran and North Korea?
 It is more likely that the minds of the Kremlin cold simply will exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase their destructive power and influence.
 For decades, my region of Europe was left to the mercy of evil.
 For this reason, I cannot stay silent while Europe stumbles blindly towards a new appeasement.
 We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, we have learned from our legacy that behind every diplomatic act of Russia is an imperial ambitions.
 West Europeans, who have fought for this heritage, should listen to our warnings.
 Dependence on Russia - even if his face today is the supposedly 'charismatic "Gerhard schroeder- only lead to the abyss.
 The bullets and the votes of Iraq
 When the Iraq war began in 2003, the Bush administration had ambitious plans: as in Germany and Japan after 1945, anticipated a long occupation and peaceful, during which the growing oil production would ensure a growing prosperity as a construyeran to a democratic structures.
 The basis would be a constitution, even post-modern liberal, with all and the guarantee of 25% of the curules of Parliament for women.
 In Iraq today there is no peace or prosperity.
 The Constitution that will be put to the vote on 15 October includes the 25% rule, but otherwise is far from being a Liberal.
 The key provision (Article 2) that no law can contradict "the undisputed rules of Islam" violates the principle of parliamentary sovereignty and foreclose that legislation to comply with international standards.
 For example, the age of sexual consent cannot be set at the top of the nine years, because it had a Muhammad wife of nine years.
 It follows that girls are also adult nine years under criminal law and are subject to the maximum penalty by, say, turned to another religion.
 More broadly, the Shia can use this provision, to put its ayatollahs to establish above the elected Parliament, as in Iran, because they alone are entitled to determine the "rules" of Islam.
 Foreigners and the few Iraqis Liberals are mainly concerned this provision Islamic, but the Sunnis widespread opposition to the Constitution is intended to other provisions: the exclusion of "Ba'ath party sadamista" of political life and the government and the federalist provisions that give autonomy to the Iraqi 18 provinces and allow them to be combined to form regional governments.
 The rule of exclusion is a personal matter for the elite of the Sunnis -- including thousands of entrepreneurs, professionals, even artistas-- because, with a few exceptions, all were members of the Ba'ath.
 In theory, the constitutional ban could be interpreted as apply only to future.
 In practice, however, are now being implemented administrative rules for excluding the so-called "senior member of" of the Ba'ath of any kind of government employment and thousands have been affected.
 The Sunnis perhaps accept the federalist provisions applicable only if they were to the Kurds.
 They know that the alternative is not a return to centralism, but the secession of the three provinces of Kurdish majority of dahuk, Arbil and as sulaymaniyah to form an independent Kurdistan, with its own finance, army (the pesh merga) and oil production around Kirkuk -- has the second reserves of Iraq.
 The Sunnis reject the same federalism for the Shia because the Arab brethren feel that they have always accepted the Sunni government in the past and we will accept less -- that have their own government.
 That is what the new Constitution would, because the provinces of Shiite majority in the South --donde is the bulk of oil reserves of iraq-- could form their own regional government.
 The usual style of the Middle East, the leaders Sunnis disappointed and unhappy with the Constitution are now threatening violence.
 But federalism is not why Islamist Sunnis who preach the supremacy fire their lethal attacks.
 Its opposition is more simple: do not accept the democratic principle of government of the majority.
 Instead seek to restore the Government of the Sunni minority.
 For the Islamists, any form the Shia deserve the death, on apostates.
 A leader Shiite, moqtada Sadr, also strongly opposes the federalism.
 His followers are illiterate Shiites, mostly poorer and violent city of Baghdad and elsewhere whose "mahdi militia" fought against American troops in 2004, even when they were protecting the Shia of the attacks of Sunnis.
 As priest very young which derives its authority from his father died -- Ayatollah populista--los ayatollahs to establish loud of Iraq, those who flout their ignorance and violence, oppose Sadr.
 Sadr cannot compete in no way to them as regards religious authority, so that takes a position Arab nationalist against them, remembering that the highest Shiite priest, Ayatollah sistani Persian Arab, is not.
 Similarly, I reminds his followers that the supreme Hakim, who lead the Council to the Islamic revolution in Iraq and its militia badr "" were subsidized exiles in Iran -- and many of them have fought with Iran in the long and bitter war irán-iraq-- until Americans "the presence of return".
 Sadr opposes the federalism because a regional government date Shiite their enemies sistani supreme, and the Council and, he says, would fall under the influence of Iran.
 To highlight his message sent Sadr their men attacked the badr militia, successfully in Baghdad, where the mahdi are numerous, but without him in Najaf, where it hates Sadr by the destruction caused by the last year -- that Americans massacred their men.
 It was bad deal with Sadr as gangster; the simple arithmetic policy now says that he will probably be central to decide the result of the vote that will take place in October on the Constitution.
 To reject it and force new elections to a constituent assembly, opponents need a majority of two thirds in at least three provinces.
 It is likely that the Sunnis just win in two provinces, but if you Sadr mandated his followers slums of Baghdad to vote "no", together with the local Sunni, this could mean gain in the capital those opposed to the Constitution, which would ensure his defeat.
 As hampón political Sadr, of course is prepared to be sold.
 Last year it was for murder.
 Now it wants money, recognition as statesman and humiliation, at least implicit sistani supreme, and the Council.
 Could receive offers and perhaps the negotiations have already begun.
 But some Shiites who attacked with words and bullets have thousands of supporters armed and think that it is only should offer bullets.
 The fall of the secret police
 As noted the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc gyurcsany, when a confession engraved that his government was lying incited riots, openness in the government is not something that emerges easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.
 Like Hungary, Romania has post-comunista fought to increase transparency and honesty in what it was once one of the most closed societies in the world.
 While fighting, continuing secrecy led to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
 However, were eventually real progress towards frankness, recognised by the European Union when Romania gave the green light to join the EU in early 2007.
 In addition to achieve what the EU today considered a "functioning market economy", there was fundamental legal and political change, which I oversaw myself as a Minister for Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the financing of political parties to a shake-up of the judiciary.
 Judicial reforms, in turn, are helping to eradicate corruption.
 Recusaciones cast against former cabinet ministers and ministers, members of Parliament, judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, police and customs officers, and civil servants, as well as managers of private companies.
 It is also introduced new forms standardized for declarations of assets and financial interests of part of anyone who holds official post in government, Parliament, the public administration and local and the judicial system.
 The new statements are the most detailed in Europe and, more importantly, are made public.
 Romania's progress is confirmed by a report released at the beginning of this month, which shows that citizens' access to information from the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent to that of established democracies.
 In fact, the report, transparency and silence, carried out by the initiative pro-justicia of open society (available in www.justiceinitiative.org) indicates that, in some ways, the old democracies have something to learn from the new: certain government agencies in Romania were more sensitive to the requests for information of citizens who other agencies comparable in France and Spain.
 Specifically, in Romania responded to 60% of the requests presented, compared to 31% in France and 24% in Spain.
 Other countries that have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, which adopted laws of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after in Romania.
 However, gain access to sensitive information democracies in transition is not always easier, and I can give an account of this by my previous work as a lawyer of human rights for the Helsinki Committee of Romania.
 Many times we had to resort to the Court to force a disclosure, appealing to the Freedom of Information Act 2001 of Romania.
 For example, even when ganábamos a case which had to do with access to the registers of telephone tapping authorised by the procurator general the prosecutor were simply unaware of the judicial order.
 Presentábamos civil proceedings against the prosecutor and judge imposed a fine every day that information was withheld.
 But only when we trap media attention was that there were made public data -- detailing the amount of telephone tapping permitted in the 10 years, against whom and how -.
 With its publication, Romania began to move away from its past dominated by the securitate.
 Today, within the government, I am aware that information sharing with the public is sometimes difficult.
 But when it is necessary to implement painful reforms, there is no alternative.
 We could not have implemented the economic and political reforms that we have an income as a Member of the EU if we had not put our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in decision-making which inevitably goes hand in hand with this frankly.
 What is more, this has become a sine qua non democratic government in the world.
 When the United States adopted its Freedom of Information Act in 1996, joined the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
 Today there are almost 65 countries with this type of laws.
 In Romania, who fought for a law of freedom of information made full use of it.
 As part of the study of pro-justicia initiative, who requested information from the government of Romania voluntarily offered the kind of disseminating information which would have been unthinkable only a few years before.
 The Ministry of Defence Romania, for example, revealed the amount of staff of the armed forces who died in 2003, as well as the causes of death (including 13 suicides, two shootings and two deaths in combat in Afghanistan).
 In the same way, we asked the Court of Bucharest to report on the number of judges disciplined since the beginning of 2000, even the arguments for any sanctions applied.
 The Court has altered the higher asked the Council of the courts, who gave a comprehensive answer: a list of four pages of all the judges penalized, with details of the reasons and sanctions.
 This kind of information is both a product as a motor of reform.
 It was not always easy for those who are in government, and there is still a reluctance criticism of sensitive documents.
 But, in the former Communist bloc, the benefits which meant transparency have been undeniable.
 At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secret remains a threat to the core values of the democratic governance, and that only the constant vigilance, both in established democracies such as the young, can prevent are transferred its limits.
 Save trees of life
 Nobody can spend a day without using a product that has come from a forest.
 More than most people realize, the role that wrote, the water coming out of our taps, drugs that we sanan, wood builds houses and furniture, all originates in forests.
 Forests have the fresh air that we breathe and habitats are endangered species.
 We also provide opportunities, recreational increasingly important in our complex world.
 About 1.5 billion poor people living in rural areas of the world depend on forests for basic needs as food and fuel.
 However, deforestation is continuing.
 Every year we lose 14.6 million hectares (145 000 square kms.) forests, an area nearly four times the size of Switzerland.
 The forestry management irresponsible, aggravated by the bad regulation and enforcement by governments, and markets that they will encourage the sale are illegal logging conspiring to end the most valuable and forests threatened in the world.
 Once that forests are beginning to disappear, are usually produces a set of environmental, social and economic problems that affect us all in some way.
 The island of Sumatra, in Indonesia, is a good example.
 Companies producing paper pulp and are doing a rampant destruction of forests and illegal containing the most rich diversity of plants in the world.
 It is likely that the road plants disappear still to discover, as well as endangered species as the rhino and elephant Sumatra, and the orangután.
 When forests Sumatra, entire communities of people will have a place little suited to live and without a decent way of earning a living.
 Moreover, the distortion of global markets caused by the trade in goods produced and illegal cheap produces disadvantages for companies that demonstrate social responsibility.
 The developing countries are losing 15 billion per year tax revenue, due to the illegal logging.
 To make matters worse, the demand for wood for reconstruction following the tsunami last year is intensifying the unsustainable now demand that exists on forests in Sumatra.
 Similar threats to forests are obvious in the Amazon and in the Congo Basin.
 The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (eem) of the UN shows that the forests of these and other regions of critical importance are in frank decline due to bad management, and who will continue to disappearing unless action is taken seriously.
 The information distributed by the Government of Brazil indicates that deforestation of the Amazon forests irreplaceable, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, came to the 2.6 million hectares (nearly 26 000 square kms.) last year, taking the total deforested area of the Amazon 17%.
 But the battle against deforestation is not lost.
 Various organizations, environmentalists and businesses concerned of the State of the forests of the world are joining forces to reverse the reforestation and improve the management of forests.
 For example, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the World Bank have helped the Government of Brazil to start an initiative that created over 17 million hectares (179.000 square kms.) new of protected forest areas, such as national parks.
 The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer in perpetuity these areas protected.
 Similarly, a meeting between the governments of the countries of the Congo Basin resulted in an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible handling of forests.
 In turn, this was an initiative of USD 53 million of the US State Department to promote the forestry conservation of Congo.
 Since the rulers met for the first time in 1999, 3.5 million hectares (more than 33.700 square kms.) of new protected areas have been created in the Congo Basin.
 However, given the effects of the Asian tsunami December, the weight of the evidence provided by the eem and statistics on deforestation woodland areas of key importance, our efforts must continue.
 The World Bank and the WWF recently pledged to unite in an effort to help reduce the rate of deforestation global in 10% by the year 2010, and work with the other institutions of the public and private sectors for the achievement of ambitious objectives of forestry conservation.
 Studies of the WWF show that if the forests of the world fall into a combination of customs and types (including protected areas trade, forests handled responsibly and landscapes boscosos recovered) can we respond to the needs of global forest products, while maintaining environmental and social substantial resources for the foreseeable future.
 The leaders of business, governments and civil society organisations must play its role in order to achieve this vision.
 Are the Saudis fanatics?
 The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have made many not only challenged the prospects for survival of the House of the ruling sauds, but to ask themselves if the Kingdom is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.
 In some ways, it appears that the Saudi society has been a torrent of violent fanaticism based on religious orthodoxy extreme.
 The fact that 15 of the 19 hijackers of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States were Saudis she crystallized a vision of longstanding believes that the Kingdom as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance.
 In some ways, this perception is correct, but it cannot be applied to the Saudi general public.
 On the contrary, it would be a grave mistake to assume that the fanatical Islamism defines completely Saudis attitudes towards religion.
 Between 2001 and 2003, I was part of a team that made a comprehensive study of values in Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt and Jordan.
 Our results offer a remarkably nuanced image of attitudes Saudis.
 In comparison with those polled in other countries in the Middle East, the Saudis were in general less religious, and attitudes towards democracy and the forced marriages also indicate a stream underlying moderate.
 It is clear that in the four countries religiosity is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of those polled said believe in God, in the life after the death, and in heaven and hell.
 But the Saudis seem less religious than their fellow Muslim faith.
 Sixty and two per cent of the Saudis are described as religious, compared with 82% of the Iranians, 85% of Jordanians and 98% of the Egyptians.
 The Americans also seem to be much more religious than the Saudis, with 81% of them describiéndose as such.
 Part of this variation can be explained by the differences between nations in terms of what it means to be religious.
 For example, the Americans can define religiosity differently that the people of the Middle East, with perhaps a lower accession to the religious beliefs than is customary in Islamic countries.
 This might also explained in part the differences between Muslim countries.
 But the gap between what the Saudis religiosity defined as, on the one hand, and the definition of the Iranians, Jordanians and Egyptians, on the other hand, is so great that it calls into question the predominant perception that Saudi Arabia is a society highly religious and conservative.
 Indeed, actions speak more than words: only 28% of the Saudis said participate in services weekly religious, compared to 27% of the Iranians 44% of Jordanians, 42% of the Egyptians and 45% of Americans.
 These results, although go in the opposite direction popular perceptions about the Saudi culture, are less surprising that seem.
 For a long sociologists of religion have argued that, in an environment monolithic religious or when religious institutions are closely linked to the state, declines the perception of the general public.
 It makes sense to think that when the state authorities made compulsory strict codes of conduct, people tend to revolt and away from religious institutions officially sanctioned.
 Thus, it is not surprising that the Egyptian and Jordanians, who live in countries where the State does not oblige exercise filial, more religious or that the Iranians Saudis, who must face a local policy "virtuous" backed by the state.
 Even in the marriage issue many Saudis expressed visions surprisingly Liberals.
 Respondents split almost equal parties in the question about the forced marriages, with nearly half to support the idea that marriage must be based on the consent of parents, while 48% preferred to love as the basis of marriage.
 Given the ingrained by gender segregation and the dominance of the parents, this outcome seems reveal a strong desire for greater freedom of individual option in what has traditionally been a decision taken by the family.
 Finally, the Saudis are enthusiastic advocates of democracy, again contradicting the image of the Saudi people conservatism.
 Of the Saudis surveyed, 58% found democracy as the best way of government, 23% did not agree, and 18% expressed no opinion.
 The overwhelming support for democracy in a country that has a history secular nationalist and seems somewhat contrary to what might be sense.
 Indeed, support for democracy is in keeping with a number of other attitudes liberals who are in Saudi Arabia.
 Advocates of democracy tend to be less religious, more secular, more tolerant towards others, more critical of the performance of the public sector and to be more concerned about the western cultural invasion.
 Beyond the data of the study, history has shown that liberal ideas become more popular despotic when a monarch governs the people in alliance with a "religious establishment.
 At the end of the nineteenth century arose in the Ottoman Syria a strong liberal tide, in response to the religious despotism of Sultan abdulhamid.
 At the same time, appeared in Iran a secular movement and anticlerical for constitutionalism, a reaction to the absolutist alliance between the shahs quajar and institucionalidad religion.
 In view of the similarities between these historical precedents and current conditions in Saudi Arabia, we should not rule out the possibility of reform.
 Now the data studies also suggest that it would not be surprising to see the Saudis demanding a policy more transparent and less interventionist a religion.
 The European museum
 At the end of the nineteenth century, Europe saw to Asia essentially as a source of inspiration for their artists or a source of imperial ambitions.
 Asians, for its part, they see Europe as a model of modernity, as in the meiji Japan, or a barometer of decline, as in China.
 A century later, the Japanese economic miracle, was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europe in a place of rapid technological progress, and industrial property.
 Now, in the early years of the 21st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and Asia in Europe is changing dramatically, at a time when the economies of Asia are booming while the European Union is atollada in a crisis of identity and confidence.
 Several high-profile Asian, such as the former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, today are warning that if Europeans continue with its present course, Europe will quickly become irrelevant to everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
 A prominent Chinese businessman that divides their time between Hong Kong and London was even more specific.
 At a meeting of senior leaders private entrepreneurs and politicians in Paris a few weeks ago, said: "you Europeans are becoming a third world country, spend time discussing wrong issues -- the Constitution, the welfare state, the crisis of pensions, systematically, and offer the wrong answers to the questions posed by".
 The Europeans visions of Asia in general, and China in particular, are more complex and vary between the adjustment lucid competitor to a new and respected and the pure rejection ideological.
 In May 1968, in France, students -- or some of them, at least - who took to the streets to invent a new world dreamed of the Maoist China, a China in the middle of the cultural revolution brutal and nonsense.
 Its obsession Baroque both absurd and was the product of ignorance of Mao's crimes as the result of boredom, in a prosperous society where unemployment virtually non-existent.
 Today, however, their heirs openly criticise the capitalist model Asia.
 Yesterday, China was a North anti-capitalist character to the revolutionaries utopians; today has become an ultra-liberal nemesis to a new generation of utopian reactionary -- the defenders of the status quo in Europe.
 Students who demonstrated in the streets of Paris recently do not want to become as the Chinese or Indians; reject the logic of globalization and refuse to renounce social guarantees that both cost win.
 The European economic elites perceive China and India very different.
 Today are fully aware that their vision post-colonial slightly wistful these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
 China and India became competitors genuine which deserve respect, if not simple admiration.
 The quality, costs and delivery times in the automotive industry, for example, are reaching the European level.
 Europe retains an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but firms emerging world class, particularly in India, ever are better able to recruit graduates of mit and Harvard, while at the same time, the costs of labour low and, therefore, global competitiveness.
 Unfortunately, while European leaders recognize the challenge Asia, failed to use it as a test of reality in the process of globalisation irresistible and also as a call to arms in social and economic terms.
 To tell the truth, it is fair to say that European politicians, with a few exceptions, as Tony Blair, soon adjust its visions of the world revolutionary agree with the pace of change in Asia.
 Caught between its lack of long-term strategic vision and its obsession with the short-term interests, the political leaders of Europe largely failed to win the respect of their peers Asian, unlike European companies, which would be much better to the Asian eyes.
 Of course, in a continent that virtually could not bury its past and shutting the door to the ghosts nationalists, the European Union is often viewed by Asians as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.
 But if the performance of Europe were to declining, how would survive this perception?
 Perhaps they Asians to consider the European model as a political version of Venice -- a place to visit with nostalgia for his past glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
 The reds and the blue
 The change of Condoleezza Rice by Colin Powell in the secretariat of state of state of the US shows that the recent presidential election in that country remains strong impact.
 But understand what is tells us the choice on the United States is important not only for the Americans, but also to the world.
 The presidential vote of this year is proof that the American democracy is in good health, but that some things could improve.
 Contrary to what happened in the election of 2000, when President Bush lost the vote popular and barely won the vote in the electoral college, this time triumphed over 3.5 million votes.
 Although some begrudgers still democrats, we cannot seriously question the legitimacy of the victory of Bush.
 The United States are very divided on soft States (Republicans) and blue States (democrats).
 If 100,000 votes had been different in the state's red Ohio, John Kerry would be President (albeit with minority popular vote).
 The electoral college was included in the Constitution of the United States to protect small States in a federal system, but now means that political campaigns mainly revolve around a dozen States where public opinion is very divided.
 At the most fundamental level, choose Presidents without a popular majority has something of the unseemly.
 Therefore, it is time to hold a serious debate to amend the Constitution in order to abolish the electoral college.
 Some observers also complain about rhetoric and divisive propaganda that dominated the campaign.
 But this must be seen from a historical perspective.
 At the time of the founding fathers, newspapers were extremely partial and George Washington I was dismayed to the harsh political language.
 For most of its first years -- not to mention the civil war and reconstruction — the country was so divided as now and bitter the rhetoric of campaign reflected the closed competition.
 At the same time, despite the propaganda on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a format serious and had a big audience.
 In general, is likely to be re-elected President with a growing economy.
 In this respect, what is surprising in the case of Bush was so low that it was his majority.
 In large part, this was due to the unpopularity of the Iraq war.
 Kerry tried to make war, the low job creation, inadequate attention to health and Bush's tax cut income groups high the central themes of your campaign, but some observers felt that this was never a clear message.
 Bush replied with safety concerns against terrorism and cultural populism on issues such as the homosexual marriage and the right to abortion.
 In the end, the security and populism overcame cultural economic populism.
 The interpretation of the choice has been influenced by exit polls in which they asked voters (after having voted) what mattered them more.
 The majority (22%) replied that the "moral values", compared to 20% which referred to the economy and 19% mentioned by terrorism.
 Social Conservatives interpret this as it was they who won the election for Bush and its agenda should apply in the next period of President.
 But a Pew poll lifted a week after the election indicated that category "moral values" covered a wide range of issues and the right to abortion and homosexual marriage.
 Indeed, polls show that 25% of the population supports homosexual marriage and 35% is in favour of civil unions legal for homosexual couples (the position defended by Kerry).
 However, in order to 37% which opposes these marriages, especially in the red centre of the country, the issue helped to mobilize Bush supporters to vote.
 The most important question is whether the US are divided irremediably.
 The map of electoral Khmer blue and has given rise to jokes and caricatures on the Internet on the secession of the two shores of the red blue centre of the country.
 Some would call "costopía."
 But the division is not so clear.
 Many states in both sides are won by scarce margins, and if it is colorea the map at the level of counties and not of States, much of the country is quite morado.
 Cities face suburbs and rural areas is a better description coasts against centre.
 Indeed, opinion polls indicate that a majority of Americans are concentrated in the moderate centre of the political spectrum and not in the two extremes.
 But the political elites, as the militants of parties and the members of Congress, tend to be more extremist than the public.
 The principle that seems disconcerting, because should be given incentives to move at the Center rich in votes.
 But many members of Congress represent districts that are safe for their parties and the threat to his re-election is in the primary, dominated by the wings more activists and extremists parties.
 This trend is reinforced by the growth of cable television, which attracts viewers through programmes controversial infotenimiento "and" Internet bloggers bone fierce controversy without any editorial filter.
 A reform to change the borders of electoral districts in order to make them more competitive would help to alleviate the problem, but few of the Congressmen in office would vote for modifications that could increase the risk of defeat.
 The closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate for change less than he seems to believe.
 Before the difficult problems of foreign policy, fiscal and social facing, would do well to voltear towards the centre instead to reconcile its conservative basis, but it is still not clear whether policy will prevail convictions or the pragmatism.
 How to get rid of the habit of oil
 Chancellor Angela Merkel turned the treatment of climate change in a high priority on the agenda of Germany for the presidencies of the EU and of the G8, starting in January.
 Here is a concrete proposal, sufficiently general for that world leaders consider it and accepted, and sufficiently clear to other governments and businesses the understand: nothing more than a date, at the next G8 summit, from which cars fed to oil can no longer move more in the main industrialised countries.
 A decision of this nature would have an impact economic and geopolitical highly positive.
 The real cause of today's concerns regarding energy is not the fall of world oil reserves, but rather that the internal oil production of large consumers - Europe, the United States and China - will lapse at the very moment when the growing Asian demand clog up the market.
 The available reserves will be increasingly in the Middle East, simply because the supply in the rest of the regions will run out before.
 What is more, the major oil exporters are not prepared to subordinate its policies of investment to the requirements of the market.
 Saudi Arabia is trying to manage its oil production independently, whereas Iran frightens potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and its corruption.
 Iraq suffers from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia are impediments at every turn.
 These four States harbouring half of the world's oil reserves verified and two thirds of potentially could be exported.
 All of this not production costs, is the central reason of high oil prices and fights for closing oil contracts in Central Asia and Africa.
 To believe that high oil prices are good because serve the environment is ignoring some basic facts of international politics.
 First, in many of the poorest African and Asian, oil imports represent a significantly larger portion of domestic spending in the industrialised countries, which means that economic growth and social development are in danger, at the same time that lurk new crisis of debt.
 The incomes of oil production hamper reforms in the main exporting countries.
 Thanks to his lubricada financial strength, regimes such as those in Venezuela and Iran ever feel less restricted international rules.
 The newcomers to the universe energy-consuming nations, as is the case of China, imitate the old habits of industrial West, with its long history of overlook human rights abuses in order to ensure lucrative deals with authoritarian regimes and rich in oil.
 Only the heavy-weights of political and economic world, the main industrialised countries that are still, by far the largest consumers of hydrocarbons, can initiate a change at global level.
 The change must begin with the transport sector, which represents more than half of the present consumption of oil -- a proportion likely to increase in the future.
 Therefore, the G8 countries should agree to prevent all car circulate fed oil by 2025 onwards.
 This decision would suggest not against individual mobility, but against the dissipation of a scarce resource that is more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials.
 Political leaders should not favouring no technology in particular.
 What is more, should offer to the automotive industry incentives to develop alternative technologies that are based on biomass hydrogen and fuel, until natural gas for a transitional period.
 The countries leaders from a political point of view offered to domestic industries, as a collateral benefit, a leading position of energy technology, ensuring future markets.
 Indeed, the hoped-for significant reduction of carbon dioxide emissions could bring imply the turning point needed in international policies in the field of climate change.
 But also comes into play economic development: cure our "addiction to oil" I leave more oil to the poorest countries, least-developed recently industrialised and, at the same time that would force the fall in prices and geopolitical relieve competition for energy.
 From a geopolitical point of view, the benefits would be equally obvious, as it would reduce markedly the ability of the major oil exporters to blackmail the industrialized countries.
 This could increase the power of negotiation of the international community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Russia and Iran that seriously want to promote economic and political reform from within.
 As a country technologically advanced and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is in a position to propose an initiative of this nature.
 Merkel, which has a doctorate physics and started his political career still Environment Minister (chairing in 1995 the first conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), may have more credibility to address this issue that any of its members of the EU and of the G8.
 The time has arrived shows a courageous of leadership.
 The myth of trade and aid
 Trade and aid have become fashionable words at international level.
 Greater assistance (including debt relief) and greater access to the markets of rich countries for products from poor countries seem to be at the top of the agenda.
 Indeed, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and how fast.
 In all of this are clear the lessons of the past five decades of economic development.
 Among the most important points out that economic development is largely in the hands of poor nations.
 The countries that have been successful in the recent past have gained through their own efforts.
 The aid and access to the market rarely have played a critical role.
 Consider a country that has free and preferential access to the markets of its large neighbour, which is also the most powerful economy in the world.
 Suppose that this country can send to millions of its citizens to work on the other side of the border, which receives a huge volume of investment and that is fully integrated production chains international.
 Moreover, the country's banking system supports the willingness shown by its neighbor rich to serve as a lender of last resort.
 Globalisation may not be better, true?
 Now consider a second country.
 This faces a trade embargo in the largest market in the world, does not receive foreign assistance or any kind of assistance from the West, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and prevent borrow from the IMF and the World Bank.
 If these disadvantages external debilitating were not enough, this economy also maintains its own high obstacles to international trade (as trade of state, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions).
 As the reader will have guessed, these countries are: Mexico and Vietnam.
 Mexico shares a border of 3,000 miles with the United States, which gives not only privileged access to labour markets and goods, but also easier recourse to US Treasury funds (as was demonstrated in the peso crisis of 1995).
 In contrast, the United States held a trade embargo against Vietnam until 1994, established diplomatic relations until 1995 and for years after that did not most-favoured nation treatment to imports from that country.
 Vietnam remains outside the WTO.
 Now consider their economic performance.
 Since NAFTA was signed in December 1992, Mexico's economy has grown at an average annual rate of only 1% in per capita terms.
 This is not only very below the the economic superstars Asia; it is also a fraction of the growth of Mexico over the decades of the pre-soviet epoch debt crisis (1982 1.0% per year between 1960 and 1981).
 However, Vietnam grew at an annual rate of 5.6% per capita between the start of its economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the US in 1995, and has since continued to grow at a fast pace of 4.5%.
 In Vietnam was a dramatic decline in poverty, while in Mexico real wages fell.
 Both countries experienced marked increases in international trade and foreign investment, but the situation is completely different in what matters most: raise living standards, especially those of the poor.
 What these examples show is that internal efforts succeed on anything to determine the economic fortunes of a country.
 All the opportunities that the market for the US gave Mexico were unable to counter the consequences of the mistakes of internal politics, especially the inability to reverse actual appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend to the rest of the economy improvements in productivity won over a limited range of export activities.
 What matters most is whether a country takes the growth strategy correct.
 Without any of the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam launched a strategy concentrated in diversify its economy and improve the productive capacity of their suppliers internal.
 The experience of the post-war broader support the conclusion that internal policies are the most important.
 South Korea left in the early 1960's, not when foreign aid was at its height, but when it was withdrawing gradually.
 Taiwan was not outside help and preferential access to markets.
 China and India, the two economic superstars today, have thrived largely sui generis by efforts at reform.
 It is tempting to attribute the rare African successes --botswana and mauricio-- to external demand for their exports (diamonds and dress, respectively), but that is only part of the story.
 Of course both countries would be considerably more poor without access to foreign markets.
 But, as in other cases of successful development, what distinguishes are not the external benefits that they have, but its ability to exploit them.
 See what other countries have done with its natural resources.
 The word "diamond hardly" evokes images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.
 Similarly, a few of the areas elaboradoras exports, which are proliferating in the world have reached the results that have come to light in Mauritius.
 None of this, rich countries absolved of its responsibility to help.
 Can make the world a cosy for the least corrupt dictators -- for example, more information sharing financial and not recognising international contracts to sign.
 Also, increasing the number of workers from poor countries to those who can work in rich countries and to give more room for policies geared to growth through the relaxation of the WTO rules and conditions of the US would produce a greater impact of long-term development.
 It is not clear that extend access to markets and increase aid constitute the most productive use of political capital valuable in the north.
 The development must not concentrate in trade and aid but in the atmosphere of policy in poor countries.
 And yet who is dependent?
 If the great economist Argentine Raul prebisch lived today, is certainly ask if the world is the other way round.
 His theory of the "dependence", which took a great deal of influence, argued that if poor countries too dependent on the export of primary products will never industrial depth needed to sustain the accelerated growth.
 It empantanarían, instead, in a cycle of falling prices of raw materials at global level and a less and less involvement of revenue.
 The policy response, prebisch favorite of protectionism, proved disastrous for the many Latin American countries and Africans, it was.
 But the fact is that for many years prebisch seemed to have rightly predicted the long-run trends in the price of primary products.
 The hard-hitting progress in agriculture and the extraction of resources pressured the price of raw materials, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s.
 With a few exceptions, the countries that were concentrated in the export of such products were very poor performers, while many Asian countries with few resources are overtaken.
 Today, however, as the Asian giants, India and China, join the global economy, oil prices, gold, wheat and almost all the other raw materials are increasing so explosive.
 Although there will always be cycles -- for example, oil prices will probably before that they will begin to elevarse-- the long-term trend of many primary products will clearly upwards for some time.
 What many trade negotiators and other person in charge of the design of policies seem to have recognised yet, although prebisch have realized immediately, is that these dramatic events have major implications for the overall balance of power.
 Indeed, probably no other aspect of economic globalization will raise greater challenges to the global leaders in the coming decades.
 There are many questions.
 Are you prepared rich countries today to an era co-dependent in which they need both raw materials as developing countries need imports industrial and technology?
 Are you prepared for the inevitable flow of power and influence towards the raw materials producers as they do a lot richer?
 How will face the two superpowers of the world, China and the United States, the fact that there are regions exporter of primary products important in Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia, which are full of nation States poorly trained?
 Some prophets autoconsagrados describe the problem as one of finite natural resources in the world is lagging without raw materials criticism at an alarming rate.
 Today, many support the theory of the "hubbert peak" on the oil production, which holds that we have come to the upper limits production capacity, the wells are parching traders and everything will worsen from now on.
 However, as the historian leading oil, give yergin, the prophets of the misfortune have already declared at least four times that the world is running out of oil.
 Increasingly, the threat evaporated due to radical improvements in technology.
 At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil implied dragar with mules.
 No one should be surprised the drill to 3,000 meters below the seabed.
 There have been similar improvement in all sectors of the metal mining and agriculture.
 No, the world is not about to stay without raw materials.
 What happens, however, is that the integration of 2.5 billion people (nothing more China and India) to the global economy is producing a change in the demand that safety will have much greater upward pressure on prices of raw materials that any technological advance can compensate.
 Thus, at least during the next 50 to 75 years, and perhaps until we humans start mining operations on Mars sometime centuries to come, the prices of many natural resources rising.
 It is unsettle world politics by the rebalancing the global economic power arising from this?
 The first world war, of course, erupted in part by the German concern that the other colonial powers had an extremely high proportion of the world supplies of oil and raw materials.
 Similarly, in the second world war Japan feared by the stability of its foreign cull of oil and other natural resources.
 How will arise similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources (and where even water shortages is a probema) and the West?
 Fortunately this seems unlikely for the moment, especially given the dry and pragmatic approach of China's leaders with regard to their problems of resources.
 The Chinese are looking to regions such as Africa in the hope of finding trading partners stable.
 They do not share the political proselytism Americans, those who do not only want to trade with the exporters of raw materials, but also them.
 On the other hand, are also American leaders who speak of making America is self-sufficient in its energy cull.
 But that is in essence a joke: complacent themselves, perhaps, but never self-sufficient,.
 It is understandable that much of the Arab world to consider the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the real strategy of the United States to make a stable supply of energy.
 If they are right, we can only hope that the United States have a Plan B.
 Meanwhile, the prices of raw materials will soar and currently oil exporters are the most responsible for the huge trade deficit of the United States.
 Perhaps the American strategy today is trying to deberle both countries exporters of raw materials that they have to rely on the United States is happy.
 That is something that prebisch would never have predicted.
 The option of hardliners in Iran
 It is likely that the choice of the mayor of hardliners in Teheran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next President of Iran will worsen relations with the West and international isolation of the country.
 However, in domestic terms, it is likely that the Islamic regime can go better than if there had been a more moderate.
 It is clear that Ahmadinejad has a real.
 But that has been presented as a populist, who has spoken to help the poor, which has condemned the functioning of the government and has acted almost as opposition candidate is irrelevant: was the regime's elected and eventually received official aid even against other candidates hardliners.
 The regime played their letters brilliantly.
 Turned hashemi Rafsanjani, slightly more pragmatic and that he did not agree with certain current policies, in the form of "and" system to its own man in the rebel.
 Thus, the government used the feelings against the system to revitalise his command.
 The fact that the last President Khatami, Muhammad, support the reformist movement --si well so timid and ultimately failed to nada-- simply underlines the absolute so that the rulers voltearon the political situation.
 Ahmadinejad is a representative of the younger activists of the revolution against the Shah of a quarter of a century ago.
 It was directly involved in the capture of the hostages Americans in Iran, but to what extent is something matter open to discussion.
 The most worrying of all is that is close to the two main groups representing the most extreme elements of Iran: the body of the Islamic revolutionary guard and the organization basij.
 The first is a parallel army in favour of the regime; the second is an organisation that are to the opposition and those seeking a more open society.
 However, the concerns that an even more radical leadership has taken the lead in Iran mitigate by two factors.
 First, it is likely that Ahmadinejad concentrates on internal affairs, to try to -- it is not clear how éxito-- improve the living standards of the Iranians poorer.
 Second, the same group that has taken control since the revolution will tilling the ideological and foreign policy.
 The President has fewer powers than it seems, in particular overshadowed by the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
 However, the election of Ahmadinejad abundantly clarifies the challenge that Iran poses to western policy and stability in the Middle East.
 Firstly, sends a � to be the most extreme elements of Iran and customers terrorists of the country --hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Palestine and several groups peque � you operating against Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other countries árabes-- that they have the green light to launch attacks.
 It is likely that Iran will lead to anything to do.
 Outside Iran has often been relatively cautious but covert level has been the most important sponsor of terrorism at world level.
 Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acting on their own to organise and coordinate specific operations. Now feel that they have more freedom to do so.
 Moreover, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
 Most of the Iranian political less -- those that the government allows them to operate abiertamente-- support the programme, but they are in favour of a more discreet and cautious.
 Rafsanjani, for example, preferred to build better economic relations with the West to move in the nuclear front.
 If Ahmadinejad is President of a nuclear Iran is more likely to use weapons of bold manner.
 This is not to say that the detonaría but rather that the use of diplomatic blackmail purposes, carrying the threats to level of crisis.
 Since the Iraqi leaders proclaim daily its desire to wipe Israel off the map and combating the us (Ahmadinejad rode roughshod over a photograph of the American flag when addressing vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.
 Finally, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will be more determined to subvert the stability of Iraq and his victory will encourage officials and Iranian radical extremists who are in that country.
 Iran is already sending many players to Iraq and supporting customers who want to turn it into a clone.
 The Iraqis, including the Shi'a Muslim practising -- the same version of Islam that the iraníes-- generally reject this interference.
 It is likely that a more militant position of Iran increase the friction with Iraq and to generate more anti-American violence in this place.
 In short, the election result of Iran is dangerous, but how is destabilising will depend on the actions of Ahmadinejad and the degree of power that Khamenei will take.
 Moreover, dealing with a Iran as openly extremist --radical even for patterns of hardliners régimen-- will be a challenge not only for the US, but also for Europe.
 Ͽ European countries will try to pretend that the rhetoric militant and the provocation of Ahmadinejad do not matter and that it will be possible to find a diplomatic solution to Iran's nuclear ambitions?
 With Rafsanjani it would have been easy to maintain a genuine agreement or a farce of cooperation.
 But with Ahmadinejad will require a high level of appeasement for which even the slightest diplomatic process can continue.
 Some reformers and Iranian exiles welcome the election of Ahmadinejad, because they allege that his administration will see the real face of the regime and will erase the Western hopes of reaching an agreement.
 However, can also represent the success of the regime in co-opt dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.
 Whatever the outcome, for the West the triumph of Ahmadinejad mean that everything that has to do with Iran will be claentar even more.
 Taking from the poor to give to the rich
 President Bush seems determined to ruin the US budget for the coming years.
 When Bush took office, it was possible to envisage a future budget surpluses virtually uninterrupted.
 Today, through a combination of tax cuts driven by the Republicans, an economy in the desinfle slowdown, the stock market bubble and a massive increase in spending Defense, the horizon is dominated by enormous fiscal deficits.
 Come worse, as the Bush administration and Congress dominated by republicans preparing a deepening of the fiscal mess.
 The damage that will probably weaken America instability and add to the world economy.
 Traditionally, America's Republican Party favored balanced budgets.
 This changed with the Reagan administration, when the republicans Conservatives have furthered the tax cuts, even at the expense of the emergence of large budget deficits.
 President Reagan he told the American people could enjoy tax cuts, an increase in military and continue their favourite spending programmes, all at the same time.
 It is not surprising that the outcome was a series of vast budget deficits which took years to repair.
 Both President George Bush senior such as Bill Clinton had to raise taxes to fix the chaos of the Reagan era.
 These tax hikes probably contributed to the defeat of President Bush senior at the hands of Bill Clinton in 1992.
 And yet Clinton decided, courageously, completing the process of restored fiscal balance, in part to protect the long-term financing of the programme of retirement of social security.
 When Clinton left office in the year 2000, the budgetary situation was the best in decades.
 Then came the President George Bush jr. again to play the role played Reagan: large tax cuts, a huge increase in military spending and a continuation or even popular expansion of spending programmes.
 The result was a foregone conclusion.
 In January 2001, to meet the budgetary outcome accumulated for the years 2002-2011 would have a surplus of $5.6 trillion dollars.
 In 2002, these surpluses planned had been extinguished.
 In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, could be expected that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by the republicans were careful when proposing new tax cuts.
 But no, its top priority is to put in place new tax cuts, which mainly benefit the rich.
 At the same time, the administration is proposing large increases in military spending.
 With the presidential election in November 2004 on the horizon, we can be sure that there will be no significant cuts in spending programmes.
 So it seems that mass budget deficits came to stay.
 If the internal expenditure simply remains constant as a fraction of national income, the budgetary outcome accumulated for the next ten years will be a combined deficit $1.5 billion.
 But it may be that this figure is optimistic, as it will probably not properly included the costs of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax cuts, or the risks of higher interest rates in the coming years.
 Why Republicans worry so little all this chaos?
 To some Republicans they care more about the lowering taxes of the rich that almost anything else.
 Others believe that the deficits will be forced to making significant cuts in the internal expenditure of government, reducing the size of the State, which is its dearest wish.
 The problem with this point of view is that most of those who pay taxes like the internal programmes and not very easy to support the implementation of important cuts in spending.
 A question more worrying is why the Americans vote for such policies, when they should know that only will cause problems.
 An answer is that many voters do not see the imminent budgetary problems.
 A better answer is that the majority of Americans did not vote in reality for these policies.
 Participation in the 2002 elections was only 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of the eligible voters.
 Of course, the prospects need not be so black.
 We can prevent the war in Iraq.
 The proposed tax can be reject or leave.
 But I predict large budget deficits in the years to come and a growing sense of unease inside and outside America about its macroeconomic situation.
 Foreign investors can decide to stop funding the US budget and the current-account deficits in terms.
 The dollar may weaken and can be stepped up the concerns about inflation.
 All of this may make us policymakers have less confidence and are less flexible in its answers to the economic shocks.
 It is likely that the poor, inside and outside the US, suffer the worst part, when President Bush and Congress told the American people and the world that, due to the large budget deficits, there is no money to deal with the problems of poverty, health and education.
 Unless we ordinary Americans take awareness of these risks fiscal, the rich will be with another gift of billions of dollars, while the country and the world suffer the sad consequences for many years to come.
 Lessons from the US fiscal prudence
 George W. Bush has done more to the ruin of the economic policy of America that no other President of the American history, overtaking even his mentor, Ronald Reagan.
 In just three years in power, has destroyed a fragile political consensus had been necessary for the construction of a decade, and that could take another decade rebuild.
 In so doing, Bush has put at risk social stability and long-term economic strength of the United States.
 Since the long-term budgetary challenges that America is handling of such a bad way are not exclusive, errors us fiscal provide important lessons for other countries.
 The main problem with fiscal policy is that politicians can be temporarily popular by reducing taxes and increase public spending, provoking a huge public debt and making its payment for the future.
 This trick can take a few years, but sooner rather than later the défitits budgetary and the growing public debt will be forced to give painful steps backwards in this policy.
 However, a cynical political can achieve its re-election and may be withdrawn when exploits the crisis.
 One could imagine that after hundreds of similar episodes of fiscal irresponsibility throughout the world over the past decades, voters would be allergic to such tricks.
 And, however, Bush is doing again, buying popularity by massive tax cuts, while simultaneously increased military spending and even raises the spending on education and health.
 The result is a budgetary deficit equivalent to more than 5% of GDP.
 What is worse is that the financial perspective of long term of the United States were already problematic before Bush began their irresponsible policies.
 America's population is ageing, so that there will be a radical increase in the costs of health and pension systems.
 A careful calculation shows that it is likely that the future livelihood under the policies favoured by Bush are inadequate in several tens of trillion dollars to finance the costs of state pensions, health care and other expenses expected tax by the public.
 At some point in the future will be necessary, therefore, to increase radically the collection of taxes, drastically reduce public spending, or both, to correct the actions of Bush.
 Why, then, the public supports these policies?
 Because understands or worry him little these consequences of long term, even if finally end up damaging to the majority of Americans.
 For alleged, taxpayers richer are happy because received the main part of the tax cuts.
 Incredibly, the richest 5% of Americans taxpayers received almost half of tax reductions, and clearly these rich taxpayers expect the other 95% (the middle class, and the poor) bear the greater part of the cuts in spending and increases in taxes to apply in the future.
 Meanwhile, Bush has convinced many voters poor and middle class that must be happy also, without say that they will have to pay their small tax cuts with much greater cuts in the future government services, if the policies of his administration persist in the long term.
 If the Americans were political memory, understand that were already in this "roller coaster tax" once in the past 20 years.
 Ronald Reagan also came to power promising big tax cuts substantial increases in military spending.
 The result was a huge budget deficit in the mid-1980's.
 The tax cuts made to hugely popular Reagan and helped win re-election in 1984.
 It took over a decade (starting with the second period of Reagan, and following during periods of George Bush senior and Bill Clinton) in order to be able to return to a budget surplus.
 Of course, this meant to adopt new tax increases, which will cost the re-election George Bush senior and led to the polarised political environment of the 1990s.
 It is almost certain that history will be repeated.
 Some right-wing ideologues of the Bush administration believe that the current fiscal deficits finally to drastically reduce social spending of government.
 They expect to dismantle programmes such as social security and medicare.
 But the American public strongly supports these social programmes.
 So the right-wing strategy to reduce taxes first to force to make cuts in social programmes after it will not work, and sooner or later, we will need to raise taxes.
 Others in the Bush administration argue that tax cuts are important to draw the us of the recession.
 This argument is also wrong.
 The US economy might have recovered without the tax cuts, and perhaps even more solid.
 In any case, it is a great mistake long-term base tax policies in the business cycle in the short term.
 There are two vital lessons for other countries.
 The first is that rising budget deficits of the US sooner or later will limit the power of the United States.
 Americans support the Iraq war only because they had to pay for it with an increase in taxes.
 When they should be given the option of choosing between adventures abroad and higher taxes, it is much less likely to support costly military operations abroad.
 Indeed, the US is deeply divided when the public will face the fiscal mess left by Bush.
 The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking account of the increased tax costs of an aging population.
 The budgetary conditions long-term are rarely definitions for taxpayers or Parliament.
 We should call on the governments to submit budgetary assessments of the long term, together with their annual budgetary proposals, in order to reduce the tendency to political manipulation of the short term in the budget.
 The US can serve as an early warning to other countries.
 The White House should give the other the same warning that the magicians give viewers: "Do not try to this in their homes."
 The policy in the stock market
 Many economic and financial analysts complain that the governments of the emerging countries often manipulate too their stock markets and that they are more political than economic.
 The tacit course it appears that, on the contrary, any pristine force of the economic nature runs the stock markets in advanced countries, and that, therefore, to predict its performance is as predict the growth of the trees.
 This description of stock markets in the emerging countries is not wrong, but only partial, because it also applies to the markets of advanced countries.
 Indeed, the best analysts know that predict the performance of the stock market of any country is in large measure to predict how the government wants to thrive investors in the political environment of the moment.
 Consider the stock market in the United States, the world's biggest by a long shot.
 The general perception is that the government left in peace to companies and dividends resulting from investing in the stock market reflect the fundamental forces of a robust capitalist economy.
 This is one of the reasons why the US are a magnet for investors throughout the world.
 But the dividends to do so attractive to stock markets of the US reflect a delicate political balance.
 In particular, tax rates that affect the actions have changed in time to measure that changing the political pressures.
 For example, during the Second World War, the political support for large fortunes fell and the government has increased considerably taxes on capital gains, the dividends and high income in general.
 When the second world war was a solid recovery of the great depression of the 1930s President Roosevelt and Congress added a tax on the ill-gotten gains to ensure that the shareholders benefit too.
 In contrast, in 1980, when there was no war but the stock market andaba weak, American voters elected Ronald Reagan, a man who many too right-wing considered to be President.
 The asked - and obtuvo-recortes to taxes on capital gains, dividends and membership.
 The political interference in the stock market is not confined to taxes on capital gains, dividends and membership.
 Taxes on ownership, consumption, imports and sales - all of which the corporations pay directly or indirectamente-pueden have an extended impact on corporate profits and, therefore, on the stock market.
 It is no coincidence that wherever flourish stock markets, governments are careful that taxes are not destroyed corporate profits net.
 Indeed, the policy on stock markets does not end with taxes.
 On the contrary, almost any activity of the government has an impact on corporate profits, and in turn on the stock market.
 After the collapse of the stock market 1929, the US Government suspended antitrust activities, to enable companies to acquire a monopólico raising its value.
 This policy delayed the recovery of enormous unemployment, but even that was able to control the political forces prepared in favour of support the stock market.
 Similarly, one of the most important things that was President Reagan was destroyed much of the power it has left the unions Americans, which compete for their share of corporate profits.
 The defeat inflicted Reagan that to strike of air traffic controllers in 1981 was device qualifies as one to the trade union movement - and for the American stock market, which began its dramatic upward trend in 1982.
 The US Government has been particularly aggressive in supporting the stock market since the climax of the bubble of stock prices in 2000, particularly cut interest rates on repeated occasions.
 Of course, this policy was justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not support the stock market.
 But if it were to transpire that one of the fundamental factors that pesaban on the economy was the price downwards action is eloquent proof of the importance of the US stock market.
 Indeed, the authorities' response is not confined to the monetary stimulus.
 National accounts for membership and the product of the us show that the rate of taxes to effective corporate profits (the percentage of profits that are paid to the government road taxes) came to a ceiling of 33.7% in the first quarter of 2000 - the heyday of the stock market and the economy in general-y fell to 20.2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market was under.
 Much of this decline reflects the explicit support of fiscal measures approved by Congress, as well as the perception among corporations that in the current political and economic environment may be more aggressive in tax evasion.
 Moreover, after the collapse of the stock market, the maximum tax on dividends of actions declined from 35% to 15%, which gave a substantial advantage of long-term investors and reinforced the effect composed of reinvest net dividends.
 Once again, this tax cut was justified in terms of stimulating the economy, which, of course, can be said of almost any measure aimed at supporting the securities market.
 But what determines that that credible justification is the balance of political forces.
 It could be said that, over the past 200 years, the same variables, including the hostility to high taxes and a weak trade union movement, have operated in the US - and that it is therefore expected to continue to operate in the future, producing high dividends in terms of the stock market and attracting massive flows of foreign investment.
 Those who think that investments in the stock market of the US will have a strong growth tendency for decades may well be right.
 But we must know what is already predicting.
 Essentially, not only are doing predictions about the economy, but also on policies - and perhaps on the values culturales-que shape the strategies and the economic performance.
 Housing global
 Housing is more local investments, rooted in a particular place as a tree, and thus growing or marchitándose in response to economic conditions.
 The whole world is as a by flash on our television screens, but the market our homes, set up almost in its entirety by local amateur, still planted there, in our own back yard.
 Soon, however, all this could change.
 In one month, the Chicago mercantile exchange (WEC), in collaboration with my company, macromarkets, and also with fiserv and standard & poor's, launched futures contracts and options on real estate prices in ten cities of the United States.
 Contracts are concluded outcomes of real estate prices on the s P & / case-shiller, which was generated from the academic work that my colleague Karl case and I began almost twenty years ago.
 For many years, we have been campaigning for the future on housing, but, to date, no wanted to use this type of exchange rates to create a futures market.
 The futures markets on home prices will allow them to investors throughout the world invest indirectly in property in the United States, buying interests in them through these markets.
 A investor in Paris, Rio de Janeiro or Tokyo can invest in homes occupied by their owners in New York, Los Angeles, las vegas.
 A fundamental principle of financial theory -- "diversification" or "distribution of risk" - suggests that interest in new contracts will be high.
 Individuals and businesses in New York, for example, are sobreexpuestos their risks local property, so that they should reduce the risk of future selling on home prices in New York.
 People in Tokyo assume part of this risk buying future on home prices in New York if the price is appropriate.
 New Yorkers will continue to live in their own homes, but now have distributed the risk of investment at world level.
 There has been a futures market genuine one-person households since 1991, when the stock exchange futures and options in London (which today is part of euronext.liffe) failed in its attempt to launch a similar market in Britain.
 This attempt never antagonized much volume of transactions.
 The stock market organised a celebration, and nobody was not.
 The British markets of investment in margins (spread-betting), and some retail markets online, never represented much either.
 How will be different this time?
 Certainly, launch a new market is always a proposal uncertain: people want to go to Christmas only if it is many people; if there is anyone, do not want to go.
 Similarly, in the markets without many investors, cannot be implemented operations as sufficient to create the necessary returns that the attract.
 As usually happens with big Christmas, may be a mystery how new markets are substantial, but we know that once in a while, is happening.
 The initial indicators suggest a growing interest in operations with future on home prices, especially because the fact that there is talk of both the "housing bubble" stresses the importance of diversify the risk.
 After the announcement of the WEC, one of their competitors, the Chicago board options exchange, said that has planned created futures contracts and options in the main American regions, which will be based on real estate price means published by the national association of real estate agents.
 However, beyond the strong public interest in investing in housing and in ring-fence the risks that this entails, must be resolved other critical issue for the futures markets success: they must prove prices and investors must understand what that means these prices.
 I believe that there are very good chance that many of these futures markets soon pronostiquen price drops substantial in some American cities over the next year.
 Will be in what traders call "backwardation" (market invested): the future price on the market today is lower than the current price of a home.
 Perhaps this phenomenon, there is the first day on which to be traded on the future housing, but there are good chance of this happening in a matter of months.
 Maybe we need backwardation "" in some of these markets if it is to fulfil its role.
 We know that there was a gigantic building explosion in many of these cities (and in other parts of the world) in recent years.
 It is likely that international investors do not want to invest in these cities unless the expectations of a fall in prices will be based on the futures markets, as you know the people of Tokyo on the basis of their own experience dire.
 But if the phenomenon of "backwardation" is strong enough to investors who think that the American property market is heading towards a fall even can expect a good return of the future on home prices, because they are already at a lower price on the market in the future.
 However, it will take some adjustments to New Yorkers who want to protect their own property investment sold futures contracts that have lower prices incorporated.
 They will have to get used to the idea that the market is already expected the fall and that can only be protected by the margin of possible future low prices which exceed this expectation.
 To tell the truth, this type of adjustments in our way of thinking perhaps occur when really look at the price of futures market.
 Until now, the future course of real estate prices was simply a matter of various opinions.
 When markets create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we will be better prepared to manage the risks posed by these cities and thus to stabilize their economies -- and our own lives.
 What news move markets?
 The stock markets in much of the world have been marked cumulative falls from approximately 10 May. In general, the low occurred in a period of two weeks until around 23 May, but prices continued to plummet, on average, since then.
 The problems in the world stock markets are translated in problems for the global economy?
 We look at the greatest declines.
 The levels of the major countries, the collapse more important occurred in India, where stock prices fell the 16,9% between 10 and 22 May.
 The debacle in the other side of the globe was almost as important and picks and feuds occurred a day or two after the of India: in Argentina, stock prices fell the 16,1%; in Brazil the 14.7%, and in Mexico, 13.8%.
 The European markets also suffered heavy losses.
 In Sweden, stock prices fell 15.2% between 9 and 22 May; approximately the same period, prices fell the 9.7% in Germany, 9.4% in France and Britain and 9.3% in Italy.
 Similarly, in Asia, stock prices fell the 11.5% in Korea, 9.3% in Hong Kong and 8% in Japan, approximately the same period.
 Many analysts try to link these facts with what happened in the United States.
 But there stock prices fell barely 5.2% between 9 and 24 May.
 Nor China seems to be behind the overall drop, since stock prices there, in reality, increased during this period.
 The explanation flow of economists hinges on monetary policy.
 Immediately after the great fear of deflation 2003, central banks throughout the world down their interest rates, which unleashed a speculative outbreak both in the stock market and in the real estate.
 But now, according to this view, rising interest rates are starting to feel, what presages future downturns in asset prices.
 This argument, in reality, has a greater share of truth.
 The US Federal Reserve effectively rates rose may 10 and its President, Ben bernanke, indicated that it would perhaps other rate rates in the future.
 On 17 May unveiled discouraging data on inflation in the United States, which suggests that there are shelved a future monetary adjustment.
 To economists like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is happening.
 But, in doing so, often exaggerate the role of the central banks.
 Indeed, the increase in the rate in the United States was only one in a number of rate rates -- the sixteenth consecutiva-.
 No other important central bank increased rates of after the fall of stock markets between May and it 7-8 June, when several did (the European Central Bank, India, South Korea, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey).
 Another factor is the price of oil, which increased 24% between 22 March and 2 may mark records, all the time.
 Undoubtedly, this was an important event which may affect the stock markets throughout the world.
 The increases in the price of oil have been responsible virtually all the economic recessions since the Second World War.
 Even so, the increases in the price of oil is not correspond to the period in mid-May in which the rates of stock markets fell more badly.
 To say that increases in the price of oil caused the fall in the stock markets presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.
 But the stock markets are not very logical, and could be a delayed response to the oil price shocks.
 As with any other price in the financial markets, with a rise draws attention.
 When oil prices rise quickly, people look at the news linked to oil prices, and talk more about oil prices, thus creating greater sensitivity to this news.
 The crisis in the Middle East is linked to oil prices and dominated the news in the month of May.
 The increases in the price of oil amplificaron possibly in the minds of investors doom strong signals and the language used by several political figures.
 On 8 May, in response to the statements hostile Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the deputy Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, said that "the President of Iran should remember that Iran can also be wiped off the map."
 In the same way, almost at the beginning of the collapse of the stock markets may, Ahmadinejad visited Indonesia, the world's most populous country with a Muslim majority, and 13 May newspapers published that students in two of the most prestigious university of the country had ovacionado standing.
 This story could have been interpreted as proof that Ahmadinejad's bluster on the nuclear issue was redituando politically, what is fuelling the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East can result in oil prices even higher.
 These news may appear much more remote in the stock market that monetary policy.
 But how the public reacts to address them, together with the recent increases in the price of oil, may well respond to a large extent by the change in the market psychology.
 Attitudes regarding risk changing all the time, and episodes such as the declarations of ahmedinejad and Peres can precipitate this kind of change.
 In this way, while these things happen in ways that are difficult to quantify, perhaps analysts should pay equal attention to the words of Ahmadinejad to those of bernanke when trying to understand the direction to take stock markets around the world.
 To economists may not like it to concentrate on public opinion and how interacts with the price changes, the news of the whole world and the speculative dynamic.
 After all, this means that the economic developments are less predictable (and economists, less omniscient) of what they like to think.
 But this approach makes sense in intuition concerned.
 What, indeed, for the minds of investors?
 Ahmadinejad is a figure carismática; bernanke, not.
 Ahmadinejad is embarking upon an adventure; bernanke not.
 And, perhaps most importantly, Ahmadinejad is a destabilising influence; bernanke, not.
 In reality, whatever their fundamental cause of mid-May, falls in share prices throughout the world indicate a market psychology unstable.
 It is hard to believe that were involved solely with opinions on a possible monetary policy and not with most important issues and deeper, such as energy and political tension, which underpin the performance of the world economy.
 Why pay more for fairness?
 Marks & Spencer, a chain of supermarkets and clothes shops with 400 across Britain recently announced that is making its entire branch of coffee and tea, with a total of 38 lines, to introduce fair trade labels, a symbol of marketing which represents a "ethical production."
 The chain already only sells tea and coffee introduce fair trade labels in its 200 canteens resurrected coffee.
 It is also encouraging the purchase of shirts and other products manufactured with cotton introduce fair trade labels.
 The announcement occurred during "introduce fair trade labels," a fortnight promotion of two weeks of products introduce fair trade labels that included giras where farmers in developing countries were told them to the British how introduce fair trade labels attends their communities.
 The movement towards a more consumption ethical also made significant progress in the United States, for consumers tilts increasingly to organic food and locally produced eggs are not locked hens in cages.
 In Britain, a survey found that half of the people who are showed the symbol introduce fair trade labels recognised this and understood that relates to products that are better conditions for farmers in the third world.
 There is no comparable research in the United States, but on the basis of data relating, and discussions with my own pupils, reveals that the figure would be much lower.
 Merchants who seek to introduce fair trade labels certification should pay a price for producers to cover the costs of a sustainable production and offers a salary which allows them to live.
 For example, the minimum price for coffee is of 1.26 by $450 grams, no matter how can have fallen the market price.
 If the market price rises above that figure, the price will introduce fair trade labels so that still costing more five cents per 450 grammes.
 Small farmers, for its part, they are required to be organised in cooperatives or other groups to democratic participation.
 Plantations and factories can use the label introduce fair trade labels if you pay for their employees decent salaries, if they comply with the rules of health, safety and the environment, if they can organise unions or other forms of associations of workers, if offer a housing workers who do not live in their own home and if not use child labour or forced Labor.
 Not everyone agrees with introduce fair trade labels.
 Lindsey brink, the director of the Centre for studies trade policies of the promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign of coffee introduce fair trade labels is "a blind alley well intentioned."
 With some justification, argues that the real cause of the fall in coffee prices was not the monopolising of multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Brazil and Vietnam, combined with new techniques that make possible coffee planter with less manpower and, therefore, with lower costs.
 According to the opinion of the Lindsey, if we want to help coffee growers, we should encourage them to leave the coffee and more profitable to produce crops -- and here, rightly points out, trade barriers and benefits of rich countries as obstacles that must desmantelarse- or move towards greater value products, as special cafes, which have higher prices.
 The curious thing about the argument Lindsey, however, is that it could be said that the campaign of coffee introduce fair trade labels is doing exactly what he recommends -- encourages coffee growers to produce a special coffee with a more elevado-.
 Economists pro-market do not object to that corporations blatantly on the esnobismo to promote their products.
 If people want to pay USD 48 by 450 grams of coffee blue mountain Jamaica, because that is what prefers economists James Bond, do not object to that the market is distorting.
 Why, then, can be critical when consumers pay $12 elect by 450 grams of coffee, you know, was cultivated without toxic chemicals, under trees that encourages the survival of birds, by farmers who can afford to nurture and educate their children?
 Economists could respond that, if one wants to help people to nurture and educate their children can pay 10 dollars per 450 grams of coffee is not introduce fair trade labels but that takes the same taste and to the USD 2 that saves a charitable institution to give food and education boys poor.
 It is a strategy that is possible, but introduce fair trade labels has its advantages.
 The farmers know that they have to offer a product which it likes to consumers, both for his taste for the way in which it is grown.
 If their product sold well, can be proud of having produced something which people seek to around the world.
 From the perspective of the growers, receiving a subsidy is preferable to sell a product introduce fair trade labels to receive a donation of charity which would in any case, working or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
 Pay more for a label introduce fair trade labels is no more "anti-market" to pay more for a label handbags, and reflects better ethical priorities.
 Introduce fair trade labels is not a government subsidy.
 Its success depends on the market demand, not the political lobby.
 Fortunately, in Europe, this demand for market is growing rapidly.
 It is to be hoped that it will soon reach levels similar in all the developed world, and where people can choose what its discretionary expenditure.
 Marranos calves, and the US democracy
 In the midst of all headlines spoke for the democrats had gained control of the United States Congress, an election result important step almost unnoticed.
 Although highlighted the shortcomings of the American political system, I returned faith in compassion of ordinary Americans.
 In Arizona, citizens can submit a draft law on popular vote direct meet if a sufficient number of signatures.
 This year, one of the issues which appeared in the boleta was a law to ban or atara confinara to a marrana fraught or a calf reared for meat, so that it was given animal return freely, and extend their limbs were completely.
 Those who know little about the modern industrial rearing may wonder why we need this legislation.
 Under the rearing methods that universal were 50 years ago and which remain common in some countries today, all animals have space to be back and stretching their limbs.
 Nowadays, however, around 90% of the marranas of rearing -- mothers of pigs bred and kill to obtain meat, and ham bacon — spend most of their lives locked in cages measuring approximately 60 cms. by 2.2 metres.
 There must be thrown back, with their legs extended by complete or give more than a step forwards and backwards.
 Other marranas kept tied with ropes short also realize that prevent them back.
 To calves are locked up similarly throughout his life in pens that does not allow them to be thrown back, or stretching their limbs.
 These methods are essentially resources to save work -- facilitate the handling of animals and allow farms which have thousands or tens of thousands of animals hire a small number of less skilled workers.
 Also prevent animals energy wasted moving and fighting.
 Several years ago, after the protests of animal protection organizations, the European Union gave a mandate to its Scientific Veterinary Committee, a report on these methods.
 The Committee found that animals are not to be able to move freely and not have absolutely nothing to do all day.
 Of course, the common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
 Following the report, the EU set dates after which would be banned confined to those animals.
 In the case of calves, the date, 1 January 2007, almost has arrived.
 The individual stalls for marranas, who are already illegal in the United Kingdom and Sweden, will be forbidden across the EU from 2013.
 Are also gradually adopting measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, which are usually maintains apretujadas into wire cages no room to extend their wings.
 In the United States foresees no national measure of this kind.
 Earlier, when my fellow Europeans asking me why the United States are so far behind with Europe in terms of animal welfare, I was not a response.
 If I lobbied, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans are worried less for animals that Europeans.
 Then, in 2002 the defenders of animal welfare included in the electoral boletas of Florida a proposal to ban the cowsheds for the marranas.
 To the surprise of many, gained approval of 55% of voters.
 Last month in Arizona, despite an opposition well financed agribusiness sector, the ban on battery cages small to marranas and heifers was also approved with a support of 62%.
 Nor Florida or Arizona are States -- particularly progressive both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
 That is why the results indicate strongly that if all Americans are given the opportunity to vote on the confinement of marranas preñadas and heifers in places as small, the majority vote against.
 It seems that Americans animal welfare matters so much to them as Europeans.
 That is why, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States in terms of animal welfare, we must look at the political systems.
 In Europe, the concerns of the voters on the welfare of animals have been able to influence the members of national parliaments and Members of the European Parliament, which has resulted in national laws and guidelines for the EU to respond to these concerns.
 In contrast, in the United States the similar concerns have not had a observable effect on the Members of Congress.
 There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals -- and very few state legislation.
 This, I believe, is that the sector gives agro-industrial tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of Congress seeking re-election.
 The movement for the welfare of animals, despite the broad popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of lobbying and political donations to the campaigns.
 In American politics over the money that the opinion of the electorate.
 The party discipline is weak and the representatives must meet themselves most of the funds needed to his re-election, and this happens every two years in the case of the members of the House of Representatives.
 In Europe, where the party discipline is rigid and parties, not the candidates, are who finance campaigns, the money plays a minor role.
 In the United States, a country that is proud of its democratic traditions, not only lose out the marranas and calves.
 What is new in the new Afghan army?
 The murder of aviation multitudinario Minister of Afghanistan (perhaps incited by members of the temporary administration of Afghanistan) shows that Afghan society remains deeply fisurada.
 The first reforms of the Afghan army will only these divisions broader.
 The Minister of defense of the temporary administration of Hamid Karzai in Kabul already appointed senior officials of this new army.
 The Minister, General Mohammed fahim, is a tayik Panjshir district in the north of the country that three months ago took the command of the forces of the Northern Alliance to Kabul captured after the Americans bombers clarified the way.
 On the whole, their appointments pose a direct challenge to the objective has Mr Karzai reunite the country.
 Afghanistan is a nation multi-ethnic, remain the Pashtun the largest group, with two fifths of the total.
 The Hazars and the tayik are each around one fifth of the population.
 Of treintaiocho high official rank of general by Mr fahim, treintaisiete are tayik and the other Uzbek.
 If any of the Fifteen to seventeen million Pashtun of the country is recruited as soldiers, will serve under a command structure made up almost in its entirety by tayiks.
 The language of the Pashtun, however, is very different from tayik as the English and Spanish million of the Pashtun age to serve in the militia know only one outburst of tayik, at best.
 The geographical profile of the new military leadership is so narrow as their ethnic constitution.
 Thirty-five of the most senior official treintaiocho from a small area north of Kabul, constituída for the province parwan (which detects the airport at Bagram) and by the Panjshir Valley, which for a long time was strong square of the Northern Alliance.
 Put another way, the leaders of the potential twenty-seven twenty-nine provinces of Afghanistan were excluded from the new military elite of the country.
 Perhaps a group with a variety of such little could not to give the impression that its members are a clique secretive if they represented a large section crusade of the twelve or more political parties of the country.
 But that is not the case.
 Eighteen of the treintaiocho top commanders from a party, the jamiat-e-islami, the Islamic faction led from long ago by Mullah burhanuddin Rabbani and exprofesor theology.
 This was the party that ruled Kabul in the mid-1990s, causing bloodshed and chaos which meant that the majority of Afghans would welcome the Taliban.
 Almost by reducing everything to the same level the number of Members of the jamiat in the military hierarchy, are the Communists.
 Dieciseis of the treintaiocho have been a long time aligned with party, whose stratagems of the end of the 1970s led to the Soviet invasion of 1979-89, which took two and a half million lives of Afghanistan.
 Today, the majority of Afghans perceive the Communists with the same friendliness that the Czechs or Poles reserve for the National Socialists of Hitler.
 True, the people in Afghanistan, as elsewhere, joined the Communist Party for a variety of reasons and ningua way were all supporters of strict ideologies.
 But in the case of the generals of general fahim six were employed professionals of the Communist Party and continued to work for him after the invasion of the Red Army.
 The six, together with three other communists who served as official the Afghan army, actively collaborated throughout the decade of the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
 Imagine how the French have reacted if a quarter of the body of existing official in France in the postwar period had taken the side of the when Wehrmacht took his country.
 In Afghanistan the news travel quickly in mouth.
 The Nationalists Afghans (including almost all Afghans) will soon discover the political background Members of the inner circle of general fahim, if not already know.
 Even this sobrecogeedora evidence unipartidismo and bias in the formation of the high command of the new army could be neutralised if the generals brindaran professionalism and commitment to patriotic values of a genuine national armed force through his work.
 Unfortunately, only ten of the military treintaiocho promoted by fahim have fungido as professional military officers.
 An eleventh has served as a pilot.
 In contrast, twenty-four of the total (the background of the remaining four unknown) from civil society, with whatever professions, or the offices of the Communist Party, or in one of those cases, of making a career as Mullah.
 What all these statistics in terms of the daily reality?
 Mean that when commanders of the international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as the military and American diplomats are asistende, the Minister of Defence of Afghanistan will be with Abdul Rashid dostum, a remarkably brutal and corrupt military commander Communist and that has been in contact with old friends of the Red Army still in service in Moscow.
 This means that the head of the armed forces Afghan, as well as the head of operations and the head of military intelligence, are also Communists, men whose loyalty is uncertain and those wary of the majority of the Afghan people.
 This is a team which would have the opportunity to unify to Afghanistan fragmented by war?
 How will inspire the presence in Kabul such dubious crew, confidence in the three quarters of the population of Afghanistan that have been excluded from the high command of the army?
 Or is this list, rather, harvest of a rapprochement with the governability of the "winner takes all" (which is aimed at some future point) to trigger another bloody national setback in the hands of those whose legitimate interests have been persecuted cynically?
 The Americans, Europeans and people of the United Nations policymakers should ponder these questions before acknowledge a merciless seizure of power and unpopular in charge of a small minority.
 A recognition of how creaky
 My applause for the new economy: Nobel Daniel kahneman, princeton university and Vernon Smith, of the university George mason of Virginia.
 Like many other Nobel laureates, these honours are a recognition not only the work done by señero kahneman and Smith, but also to schools of thought that helped to lead.
 Kahneman, which is sicólogo, has shown how people behave consistently less rational ways that what believe orthodox economists.
 Research shows not only that people sometimes act differently from what predict standard economic theories, but they do on a regular and systematic, and in ways that we can understand and interpret through alternative scenarios that compete with the used by orthodox economists.
 For all market participants (and, indeed, for the ordinary observer) that does not appear to be a major innovation.
 The agents of Wall Street who set the sale actions that they knew that they would not apply nothing exploded irrationality that kahneman and Smith have said.
 Much of the foot that led to the bubble economy was based on the exploitation of psychology investors.
 In fact, this irrationality is not new, nor to the profession of economists.
 A long time ago John Maynard Keynes described the stock market as something based not on rational people struggling to crack the fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest in which wins who conceal the verdict of judges.
 The Nobel Prize of this year is a recognition of the criticism of a market economy simplistic, as he did the prize last year (which was one of the three winners).
 The winners of last year laid emphasis in which the various participants in the market have different) (and imperfect information, and that these asymmetries of information have a profound impact on how the economy.
 In particular, the rewarded last year meant that the markets were not efficient in general, and that the government should play an important role.
 The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets are the efficiency as if the managing an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
 This is not new for those working day to the market (and make their fortunes on saving and asymmetries of information).
 For more than twenty years economists have been fascinated by so-called models of the "rational expectations," which assumed that all participants have the same (if not perfect information) and acting so perfectly rational, that markets are perfectly efficient, that unemployment there is never (except when it is caused by the greed of unions or minimum wages of governments), and in which there is never a credit rationing.
 These models that have prevailed, especially in the American universities, despite the evidence to the contrary, is testimony to the triumph of the ideology on science.
 Unfortunately, these programmes are university students who now devising policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that has been termed market fundamentalism.
 I was not malentienda: the models rational expectations made an important contribution to the economy; the rigour imposed its advocates the economic thinking helped to expose the weaknesses of many underlying assumptions.
 The good Science recognises its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations often do not have shown that modesty.
 Vernon Smith is a leader in the development of the experimental economy, the idea that it is possible to test out various economic proposals in an atmosphere of laboratory.
 One of the reasons that the economy is a difficult issue, and why there are so many conflict between economists, is the fact that they cannot be controlled experiments.
 Nature offers us natural experiments, but in almost all circumstances so many things are changing so quickly that it is often difficult to fathom what caused what else.
 In principle, in a laboratory can make controlled experiments and, therefore, to draw inferences more reliable.
 Critics of the economy are concerned that the experimental subject to situations ways of thinking experimental caused outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not as clear and that the inferences not as defined as in the sciences physical.
 However, the economic experiments provide prospects for a number of important issues, such as the best design of auctions.
 More importantly, the irrationality of market participants, which was the focus of the work of kahneman, has been stated repeatedly in laboratory contexts.
 Among the most interesting results that have emerged from the economy are experimental those associated with the altruism and selfishness.
 It seems that (at least in situations) the experimental subject of experiments are not so selfish as they have raised economists in its assumptions, except in the case of a group: economists themselves.
 Does this is because the economy as attracts discipline to people who are more selfish by nature or the economy to help train individuals, making them more selfish?
 Almost certainly the answer is a little both.
 Probably the future experimental research will help resolve the question about the relative importance of these two scenarios.
 The Nobel Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy as they are not, as we want them.
 Only if we understand better human behavior can expect real designing policies that make our economies work better.
 The bad faith of the energy policy of Bush
 In one of the most surrealist session of the World Economic Forum in Davos this year, experts from the oil industry explained how the melting of the polar ice cap -- that is happening faster than anyone had previsto- represents not only a problem, but also an opportunity: now that can facilitate access to vast amounts of oil.
 Similarly, these experts grant that the fact that the United States has not signed the Convention of the Sea, the international treaty which determines who has access to oil overseas rights maritime and other minerals, presents a risk of international conflict.
 But also point to the side benefit: the oil industry, in his relentless quest for more reservations, does not need to ask the Congress to give him the right to raiding Alaska.
 President George W. Bush has a strange skill not to see the message.
 For years, it has become increasingly clear that its energy policy is quite wrong.
 According to the dictates of the oil industry, even members of his own party referred to a law as a previous energy that "no left no lobby dissatisfied."
 While praised the virtues of the free market, Bush has done no more than take enormous stipends to the energy industry, even in times that the country faces enormous deficits.
 There is a failure of the market with regard to energy, but the government intervention should go in precisely the opposite direction proposed by the Bush administration.
 The fact that the Americans do not pay the price of pollution resulting from their spendthrift use of energy - especially the enormous amounts of causing the greenhouse gases means that this is undervalued, which in turn maintains excessive consumption.
 The government must encourage conservation, and intervene in the system of prices - through taxes on energy - is an efficient way of doing so.
 However, rather than encourage conservation, Bush has pursued a policy of "to drain the United States first," left us external more dependent on oil in the future.
 Never mind that high demand will increase oil prices, creating a barrage of money for many of the actors in the Middle East that are not exactly friends of the United States.
 Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have finally woken up to the reality of the increasing dependence on the US; with the huge increase in oil prices, you will find it difficult not to draw the consequences.
 However, almost certainly the hesitant measures of his administration will exacerbate things in the immediate future.
 Bush still refuses to do anything with regard to the conservation, and has supported with very little money its constant mantra that technology is what we have to save.
 What, then, can we think of their recent declaration of a commitment to do that the US is 75% less dependent on Middle East oil in 25 years?
 For investors, the message is clear: not to invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the cheapest source of global oil.
 However, without new investments in the development of reserves in the Middle East, growth debocado of energy consumption in the United States, China, and the rest of the world means that the pace of demand exceeded the supply.
 If that were not enough, the threat of Bush to implement sanctions against Iran poses the risk of disruptions in the supply of one of the largest producers of the world.
 At a time when the world oil production is close to full capacity and prices are already more than double its previous level to the Iraq war, the future suggests prices and even greater profits for the oil industry, the only clear winner of the policy of Bush in the Middle East.
 It is clear that we should not accuse Bush, at least, and finally, having recognised that there is a problem.
 But, as always, a more detailed look at what it proposes suggests another conjuring trick hands by its administration.
 In addition to refuse to acknowledge the importance of global warming, encourage conservation or devote sufficient funds to research to make a real difference, the Bush bombastic promise to achieve a reduction of dependence on Middle East oil means less than it seems.
 Given that only 20% of the oil used in the US comes from the Middle East, its goal can be achieved with a modest change of acquisition of this resource from other sources.
 However - one could certainly thought that the Bush administration realises that oil is traded in a global market.
 Even if the US were independent 100% of the Middle East oil, a reduction in the supply from this region would have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.
 As so often with the Bush administration, the explanation of the official policy is not rosy.
 Bush is playing politics to stir the feeling anti-árabe and anti-iraní in the US?
 Or is it just another example of incompetence and disorder?
 By what we have seen in the last five years, the right response probably contains more than something of bad faith and sheer incompetence.
 The road map of China
 China is on the point of adopting its eleventh five-year plan, setting the stage for the continuation of probably the most remarkable economic transformation of history, while improving the material situation almost a quarter of the world's population.
 Never before the world had seen a of sustained growth; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
 Part of long-term success of China has been its almost unique combination of pragmatism and vision.
 While much of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington consensus, it has embarked on a quijotesca crusade by a higher GDP, once again, China has made clear that seeks to sustainable and more equitable increases in standards of living real.
 China realise that has entered a phase of economic development which has caused enormous -- and insostenibles- demands on the environment.
 Unless there is a change of course, living standards will end up being affected.
 For this reason, the new five-year plan puts great emphasis on the environment.
 Several of the most backward areas of China have been growing at a pace that would be tremendous, if it were not for the fact that parts of the country are growing even faster.
 Although this has reduced poverty, inequality has risen, with greater disparities between urban and rural areas, and between coastal areas and home.
 The report on the development of the World Bank of this year explains why inequality - and not only poverty should be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China attacked the problem head-on.
 For several years, the government has spoken of a society more harmonious and the plan describes ambitious programmes for this.
 Moreover, China recognizes that what separates the least developed countries of developed countries is not just a income gap, but also a gap in the knowledge.
 So that has devised a bold plan would not only to reduce it, but also create a basis for innovation independent.
 China's role in the world and in the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects this.
 Its future growth will have to be based more on domestic demand that in exports, which will require an increase in consumption.
 Indeed, China has a problem: a little common level of savings excessive.
 People saves due in part to the weakness of the social security schemes of the government; the strengthening of social security (pensions) and public health simultaneously reduce social inequalities, increase the sense of well-being of the citizens and promote the present consumption.
 If succeed (and hitherto China has exceeded even their own expectations), these adjustments can mean enormous pressure on a global economic system that is already unbalanced due to the enormous fiscal and trade imbalances in the US.
 If China saves less -- and if, as have announced their authorities, seeks to implement a policy more diversified in their investment reservas-, who will finance the more than $2 billion a day of US trade deficit?
 This is a matter for another occasion, but it may be that that day is not very far.
 With a vision as clear about the future, the challenge will be to deliver it.
 China is a large country, and could not have achieved the success that has taken without decentralizing widespread.
 But the descentralizaciones raise their own problems.
 For example, greenhouse gases are global problems.
 While the us says that cannot be allowed to do anything about this, the authorities in China have acted more responsible.
 Within the month after the adoption of the plan, imposed new environmental taxes on cars, petrol and forest products. China used market-based mechanisms to address the problems of its environmental and global.
 However, the pressure on the authorities of local governments to create economic growth and jobs will be enormous.
 Will be very tempted to argue that if the US cannot produce in a way that protects the planet, how could do them?
 To translate their vision to actions, the Chinese Government will need sound policies, such as environmental taxes just apply.
 The move towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems that have affected the developed countries repeatedly: specific interests that their arguments selfish tenuous camouflaged behind a veil of market ideology.
 Some would argue in favour of the economy of the pump: we do not concern ourselves for the poor, because it will eventually benefit all of growth.
 And some will oppose policies on competition and the existence of sound laws on the handling of corporations act: let the law of the Darwinian survival.
 Arise arguments focused on growth to oppose the existence of social policies and sound environmental: for example, it will be said that "if hauled gasoline taxes, this will mean suffocation of our nascent automotive industry."
 These so-called pro-crecimiento policies not only do not create, but which may threaten the same vision of the future of China.
 There is only one way to prevent that: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose fallacies and provide scope for creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
 George W. Bush has shown the dangers of an excessive secrecy and limit the decision-making a narrow circle of followers.
 Most people outside of China does not appreciate how their leaders, by contrast, have been involved in lengthy deliberations and extensive consultations with foreign) (even in their efforts to solve the enormous problems that face.
 The market economies are not regulate themselves.
 We cannot simply leave on automatic pilot, particularly if one wants to ensure that all enjoy the benefits.
 However, it is not easy to administer a market economy.
 As a juggler constantly, it must respond to balance economic changes.
 The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that reply.
 The world notes with astonishment and hope to measure that the lives of 1.3 billion people are changing.
 The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy
 It seems appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, that the world is debating the nature of democracy to two hundred years of the birth of Alexis de Tocqueville.
 Tocqueville deservedly is famous for rejecting nostalgia reactionary and consider the triumph of democracy as our destiny, while warned of the dangers associated with democracy for freedom.
 Are we to continue sharing their concerns?
 Envisaged Tocqueville democracy not only as a political regime, but above all as a regime that shaped intellectual in the customs of society in general, and thereby gave him a dimension psychological and sociological.
 Tocqueville argued that the democratic regimes determine our thoughts, desires and passions.
 As well as had a man ’ and, in the twentieth century, a sovieticus homo, "the man democratic" is a variety of human beings.
 For Tocqueville, the systemic effects of democracy could lead to deprive citizens of their reasoned thoughts.
 Only viewed pretend that the events and values alone; indeed, merely copiaban opinions and simplified toscas of the masses.
 Indeed, what Tocqueville called the dominance of the "social power" on the opinion is probably stronger in democratic regimes point of view predicts that the growth of demagogy in the modern era and the manipulation of the media.
 Tocqueville believed that this trend was not limitations effective long-term.
 Nor democracies, nor small local societies, nor checks and balances, government nor the civil rights can prevent the decline of the critical thought that democracy appears to cause.
 Schools have the power to be little more than enclaves in the middle of the force of social corrosive influences on the functioning of the mind.
 Similarly, while Tocqueville thought that seek virtue as was done in antiquity or have a religious belief in some cases could raise the soul, also walked into conflict with the democratic ideal if officially prescribed in public life.
 In this sense, the heirs of intellectuals Tocqueville theorists include neomarxistas of the school of Frankfurt, as well as Hannah Arendt. They feared above all the disintegration of reason in modern societies.
 Indeed, the French philosopher Marcel Gauchet intituló a book recently democracy against itself.
 The democratic lifestyle, as these writers, tends to destroy the original thinking and to delete "high" culture, which results in a mediocrity that makes the citizens vulnerable to the enemies of democracy.
 But, while history is full of regimes praised by mass murderers intimidated and misled, the great risk for democratic countries is that their citizens into the apathy and in the short-term vision for the sake of satisfaction immediately.
 The past - despite the ritual seeking to commemorate historic moment is obliterated due to addiction for new and recent.
 Indeed, the ruling classes supposedly well-educated is subject to this charm.
 The essential problem of the mind democracy is its lack of historical awareness.
 The flaws of democracy, really mean, as Tocqueville, argued that the pessimism resigned is the only way -realista but insostenible-?
 I do not think so.
 There are ways to fight against what might be called the growing "democratic" stupidity today.
 The first defence is pressing for an education system that is really minds criticism, namely by means of raw neglectful largely (today), of literature, history and philosophy.
 If we want to train the citizenry informed and criticism that democracy needs, our schools must stop bowing to fashions temporary more recent and begin to improve your analytic abilities of students.
 The biggest obstacle to this education are the means of mass communication, with their tendency to cultivate superficial and fun.
 Today, many people is more time in their lives watching TV shows that in the class.
 The passivity which promote the media is the opposite of the active participation that democratic people need.
 But it is difficult to imagine mass media (with the exception of newspapers) become quality of its own volition, into instruments of an education to strengthen the capacities criticism of citizens.
 This concern about mass media is not merely elitist contempt towards the popular culture.
 The question is not only of popularity - after all, Mozart was popular in their time and the theatrical works Shakespeare atraían both to the poor and the rich, but the rejection of the mass culture to challenge and provoke.
 The result of this failure is a widespread indifference and a passivity of the public.
 Indeed, has long been in a globalised boom culture of means that is incapable of giving the ability of critical thinking or creating higher feelings.
 It is a culture which, owing to its oversight, threatening the democratic freedom because cannot create any sense of duty - society, history, to the Community.
 It is too late to do something about a culture that erased both spirit?
 Scorned Tocqueville elites of his time for its complacency towards the strength of rootlessness of democracy.
 Does it will also help the shortsightedness of our leaders as an agent of your prophecy disturbing?
 A Europe for all
 Today, Members who belong to the European Union seem to doubt the future, but in Ukraine the see with hope and admiration.
 Cling to the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, as Ukraine has been found to be a nation is not an end, but it is a start.
 Indeed, the European unity is indivisible: when a nation is ostracised, none of them is free.
 We Europeans are an essential component of a close network, intertwined in a single fabric which represents our destination.
 Every aspect of our common culture, if not the last century of shared suffering, confirms this.
 Everything affecting a European, directly affects us all indirectly.
 Never again can afford to live with a close notion of two Europes, haves and have-nots, known and outsiders.
 Anyone who live within the European continent can (or indeed) must be considered alien to the Union.
 Depend on this the great European Pax and prosperity pan-European today.
 Of course, some people that there are murmurs from Ukraine is not Europe.
 Coming to Kiev and talk to the people, both young and greater, with factory workers, farmers' wives, lawyers, doctors and teachers who remained, bearing for weeks the cold and snow last winter to defend their freedoms.
 They are not united by a link with those who remained on the side of General de Gaulle in the French resistance?
 Do not are with those who died fighting for Spanish Republic in the 1930's, with those who liberated Budapest in 1956, and with those who put an end to fascism in Spain and Portugal in the 1970's?
 They are not encouraged by the same spirit which gave the Solidarity movement in Poland and the peaceful masses that conducted the Velvet Revolution in Prague in 1989?
 That is the true European spirit, and no doubt can overturn it.
 To those who say that Ukraine is too delayed and for EU membership, I say, too, that come to my country and see mothers who are at night in their workplaces taught us to their children to use their computers.
 To come to see the lessons of languages in each nation and city where young people are being prepared for Europe, learning French, German and English.
 Those who doubt the European vocation of Ukraine must understand that Europe is not a matter of machinery and superautopistas; it is the inextinguible desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
 I believe that our future is as promising as a shining is the past in Europe, and that our fate is not to be a forgotten country a border region in problems, but a builder and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
 Already self-determination does not mean isolation, because we achieve national independence today means only return to the world stage with a new status.
 New nations can create with its former occupiers the same sort of fruitful relationship that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
 This is the kind of relationship that my government sought with Russia, and achieve it is the way we can expand the area of peace in Europe.
 Of course, it is premature to do anything else to indicate the great interest with which we see the prospect of membership.
 We know that our part in that large building will not be built overnight.
 We know that the major projects of European unification does not lie in documents or declarations, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and ensure the security of all Europeans.
 Building a Ukraine worthy of EU membership will not be easy, cheaply and quickly.
 However, as the Union itself, is a company that it will be achieved.
 We know that the challenge is large, but the prize worth the effort, and Europe must know that this is our goal.
 Part of the task of renew Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare in which fascism and communism, ideologies born in the heart of Europe, fought for power.
 Only a few months ago, in cities across Ukraine, our children and their parents confronted armed troops, threatening dogs, or even to death.
 Only a few years ago, a young journalist, Georgi Gongadze, to inform the public about corruption of the old regime, he was tortured and beheaded by his henchmen.
 However, our orange revolution last winter showed that the people of Ukraine prevailed.
 So, despite the doubts and difficulties today, a unwavering faith in Europe.
 I rehúso to accept the unease as final answer to the ambiguities and horrors of the history of Ukraine.
 I rehúso to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically linked to the opaque midnight the legacy of communism that can never see the dawn of peace and truth of European unity.
 When EU citizens consider Ukraine's place in Europe, must do far more and closer to what is at first sight.
 Should go beyond the ravaged moorlands left by Communism, beyond poverty and beyond social divisions through which our former rulers, today bypassed, tried to extend his misrule.
 Instead, they should look closely the face of our President, Viktor Yushchenko, distorted by the poison during the electoral campaign last year and recall the words of the great André Malraux French, for whom the finest "faces are those who were injured."
 The civil war of Muslims
 Today is the division between Sunni Shiite and in the Middle East deepest that antagonism between Israel and the Arabs?
 One might think that, given the response of some Arab governments to the decision of Hezbollah of attacking Israel.
 Even at times that the Israeli bombs fell on Beirut and shot, Saudi Arabia, perhaps the most conservative Muslim Arab country of all, strongly condemned the actions of Hezbollah, which is an organisation for instigating Shia, the conflict with Israel.
 Never before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict a State that is regarded as leader of the peoples Arab Muslims had backed Israel so openly.
 Moreover, the breakup of Saudi Arabia with Hezbollah is not something isolated.
 Egypt and Jordan have also categorically condemned to Hezbollah and its leader, Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, for its lack of responsibility.
 What is behind this surprising attitude?
 What we are witnessing a fundamental change in the relationship between nationalism Arab and Islamic factionalism?
 Saudi Arabia is more concerned and simple before the Shia Islam that committed to the Arab unity and the Palestinian cause?
 The allegations of Arabs against Hezbollah suggest that the sectarian division among Muslims, already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, is deepening and becoming more intense in the Middle East.
 The desire of President George W. Bush remecer societies of the sum of the Arab world intended to lift the forces of modernisation against the traditional elements of Arab societies and Islamic.
 Instead, seem to have started most atavistic forces in the region.
 Open this Pandora's box may have begun a new and more bitter was widespread violence, which perhaps only can be called a "Muslim civil war."
 The division between Sunni and Shiite has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical isolation and Iran's ethnic Shia Arab not, together with the dominance of the Arab countries Sunnis on its minorities Shiites, largely held this rivalry in second place.
 These tensions fell even more with the Islamist tide created by the Iranian revolution, since after her identity Arab sectarian lost even more weight to measure that appeared to be a "Islamic" identification widespread.
 All of this changed when Al Qaeda, a Sunni terrorist force which relies heavily on the ideology of the Wahhabi Saudis and its people, launched attacks on the United States in September 2001.
 Now there was a Sunni specifically arm of militant Islamism.
 When the United States opened their wars against the Taliban Sunnis of Afghanistan and the Sunni regime of Iraq, this new trend radical Sunni strengthened still further.
 Sunni Arabs in the region, with its new vigor, perceive that Israel and the West are only one threats, while the other is the so-called "," the growing Shia arc of land which stretches from Lebanon to Iran, Syria and Iraq, inhabited by the allegedly Shia heretical.
 The rulers of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the most sacred places of the Muslim faith in Mecca and Medina, so the may be more inclined to feel this threat.
 In the eyes of the Sunni, Shia the not only dominate the oil-rich areas of Iran, Iraq, and the eastern region in Saudi Arabia, but -- through the actions of hizbulah- are trying to usurp the role of 'defenders "of the central dream of all Arabs, the Palestinian cause.
 The Saudi Kingdom has turned against Hezbollah due to the fact that the Saudi royal family derives its legitimacy from a strict form of Sunni Islam and doubt the loyalty of their Shiite population.
 Ironically, the United States, the traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, who has made it possible to the strengthening of the Shiites, the overthrow of Saddam Hussein and lead the Shiite parties to power in Iraq.
 The Bush administration seems to recognise what happened; as the Shia arc grows in the east of the Arab Muslim world, the US tries to strengthen their protection of the Sunni arc (Egypt, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia) in the west of the region.
 Israel, once the implacable enemy of Arab cause, now seems to have been integrated into this defence structures.
 However, a defensive position with these characteristics is destined to be unstable, due to the feelings panárabes.
 Today, the ordinary citizens Saudis still events in Gaza and the southern Lebanon through Al Jazeera and other satellite TV networks.
 They see that blood is shed Shia Arab (not), and that only Hezbollah responds to the attacks.
 In their eyes, Hezbollah has become a model heroic resistance.
 This is making the Saudi state deepened the rift between Sunni and Shiite.
 After the Kingdom's official accusations against Hezbollah, the Saudi state called their official Wahhabi clerics issuing fatwas condemning hazbolah as an organisation heretics and cismáticos Shia.
 This type of sentences cannot do more than exacerbate divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.
 As these will deepen antagonisms, will come to believe the Sunni regimes that require his own Hezbollah in their corner of the world?
 If they come to this conclusion, do not have to look far, since these fighters have already been trained... by Al-Qaeda.
 Georgia in the minds of Europe
 The era in which Europe could rely on us to make war, peace and democracy in its own backyard ended.
 As recently the crisis of Russian gas, with the enlargement of the EU's own backyard now includes not only Ukraine but also Georgia.
 In fact, like Ukraine, Georgia faces a test of its democracy that Europe cannot afford to ignore.
 Georgia was the first country to initiate a post-Soviet "revolution" of colours and to demonstrate, with dignity and maturity, the choice of his people for democracy and European values.
 Flags of the European Union that they have since ondeado in all public buildings in Georgia are a sign of accession, natural and as old as the history of a country that for the ancient Greeks was an integral part of the world.
 Prometheus, medea, the Amazon, and in neighbouring Armenia, Noah's ark... the Europe of our myths begins here.
 With its history, culture and traditions (including the critical spirit, independent and rebel even within the former Soviet Union), Georgia seem a candidate ideal for democratisation successful.
 By the same token, it is much more worrying is that zozobrando.
 Everything seemed to have started well enough.
 There was no resistance to political reforms, privatisations, anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders do not tainted with cutting deals with the old regime, and the implementation of a foreign policy pro-European.
 Since then, however, has reappeared a totalitarian mindset leaders in which, on the pretext of represent the will of the majority, are misappropriating increasingly power.
 As the spectre of the ancient Greeks, the political elite of Georgia seems never end of death and revival.
 The same people and methods of government that tried to defeat the "rose revolution" of November 2003 have re-emerged the Center of power, through the use of their networks of relations, which extend beyond the limits of the country, as well as their tremendous wealth and accurate its well skills and intrigue manipulation policy.
 All of this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which is not merely polls of voting, but in the separation of powers.
 The government interfering in the affairs of Parliament, which in turn is to control the details of the executive - which in my case included the nomination of ambassadors and their daily routines!
 Finally, and most importantly, the judiciary is not independent, undermining the rule of law and prevents private investment that both are needed.
 Democracy of Georgia exists in their head, but not yet in his body: citizens still contemptuous of politics as a dirty business, abandonándola who should have been retired long ago.
 However, the hope of democracy is strongly rooted in the people, civic organisations and the media.
 Now is the time for Europe to ensure that this hope was not period.
 The United States has done everything it can to support the political stability in Georgia, since independence.
 There is no doubt that stability is not always amounted to democracy during the government of Eduard Shevardnadze, the former Foreign Minister of the former Soviet Union was removed from power during the rose revolution.
 However, Americans invested generously to support the survival of the ideas and democratic leaders.
 Although the Foundation supported by the financista George Soros fabricó not the Rose Revolution, as the Russian nationalist, certainly nutrió, stimulated and supported the preconditions of democracy.
 However, to help consolidate its democracy, Georgia now needs a support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to offer.
 The models for the balance of powers, the functioning of the judiciary and local democracy must inspire in European forms, which are closer to the reality that the Anglo-Saxon Georgian models of American type.
 If Europe does not accept this challenge, traicionaría their fundamental duties in a place (small, Mediterranean, flexible, with former historical traditions) where democracy has a much greater chance of success than in Ukraine, which is enormous and where there is still a Soviet mindset, not to mention the Central Asia.
 In fact, not support the nascent democracy of Georgia probably delay the democratic progress in Ukraine, Belarus and even Russia herself.
 Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
 Although Russia has never renounced their dreams and instruments of imperial domination, was resignando to the inevitability of democracy, at least in their margins.
 But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of the famosamente irrational "Russian derzhava": an aggressive ethos glorifying the state and affirms its strength through the oppression of the weak.
 This is the key to understanding the recent crisis of Russian gas.
 It is equally certain that any sign of a decline in democracy in Georgia and other post-Soviet States will give impetus to the Russian neo-imperial ambitions.
 It is the responsibility of Europe to convince Russia that is no hope of a return to the past.
 Europe must take on this role not only to ensure the independence of its energy supply, but also to show that the European values of freedom, democracy and justice between peoples have a real force.
 To achieve this, it must be equipped with the necessary instruments: a great half-open foundation to promote Europe and support political reforms, a university to form to the future executives of the emerging democracies, a police force and a set of judges and magistrates to give life to the models that we want to emulate.
 Above all, Europe needs conviction.
 If today's Europe cannot be convinced that has a vital interest in the future of its neighbours, who is going to believe tomorrow in Europe?
