Our statement of rights is the first of this millennium.
We need to know organise ourselves as Fifteen in order to be able to receive in good conditions for those countries that are knocking at our door.
In Article 87 must be included in the area of the existential assistance with cultural and charitable social purposes, so that these important institutions can enjoy a long-term protection.
Some argue that it is possible to create an internal market in Europe without agree on the basic principles and values.
I would like to welcome the important and substantial speech by President Prodi.
You know that in this case we are dealing with a deliberate decision which took place in Amsterdam, to distinguish very well the two roles, the High Representative, in contrast to the Commission, does not come with complete independence, but it has a duty to coordinate the external policy and security policy which are the responsibility of the Member States, in which case we have perhaps a broad scope for the intergovernmental aspect.
You have called for the Presidency in Nice outlines the way for the future.
Indeed, we want more and better, but I think in all honesty that this is a good start.
Consequently, I hope that the European Council in Nice is associated with this project and decide to open it as a project, not as an accomplished fact, after having adopted, of course, the reforms that we now need.
However, I have also indicated to us on the basis of the extremely important objectives with the Community method by which we have at present, for example, for a better action in the Balkans.
Only if we get linked to Russia at the West and the European Union, we will be able to influence its policy and our contact and dialogue with this country.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0767/00) by Mr Napolitano on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union
It is this genocide and tries to completely eliminate the freedom of the press and the rule of law, whose existence is already precarious.
It is precisely in order to respond to the expectations of the pensioners who called Giuseppe Italy and live in Cremona and that it would like to surf in the Po, I voted in favour of the Piecyk report on the promotion and the development of sea ports, inland ports and intermodal terminals.
- (DE) The result of the vote held in this Parliament will make it impossible to achieve the objective of the directive, an objective recognised and have spoken all the speakers and the Commission.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Skinner report, as I said in the previous debate to the vote, because I believe that the risk capital is important.
My colleague group yesterday Armonie Bordes pointed out strongly in such a way that only a minority has an interest in the transfer of Community money and of the contributions of occupational pensions to the risks of entrepreneurs.
Consequently, the Charter will serve to confirm the current practice, even backward-looking, of the national States, instead of representing a step forward.
Mr President, at last we have a Charter of Rights of the European citizen that contains an article, Article 25, entirely dedicated to older people.
In principle, this text may seem anodyne, because basically contains existing rights, but if it is incorporated into the Treaty with binding force, as called for by the European Parliament, with the time automatically tend to the standardisation of the national rights in Europe, would give a disproportionate power to the Court of Justice, and would encourage greater centralisation around the European institutions; limit the scope for independent choice of each nation.
· avoided an overload of the regulation Loading of detail, which should be reserved for the provisions of lower status.
I will deal with each issue in another letter, participating in the demonstrations in Biarritz, on 13 and 14 October, and the Nice Summit, on 7 December 2000.
Progress toward the accession of the 12 candidate countries
In my opinion, several Member States have not yet understood the existence of this connection and hesitant progress of the Intergovernmental Conference may involve major difficulties when it comes to carry out enlargement in the time needed.
We will only be able to implement in the lasting with all the points that I have said so far if the policy and leader of the candidate countries and the European Union - and in this regard I agree with you, Commissioner - to make the public aware that the enlargement of the European Union is itself beneficial.
This is the formula enshrined.
Allow me to mention now the second approach according to which the Presidency wishes to advance the process during this enlargement six months.
What I am proposing, then, is to work in this direction with the idea that we need to examine, in the perspective of the year 2003, what are the candidate countries that could join in that date.
I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, Mr Brok, for his comprehensive and explanatory report, as well as the other rapporteurs.
In these negotiations is not a single in the case of the 'if', but the 'how' and 'how'.
But we also have achieved because the prospect of becoming members of the European Union gives them hope in the solidarity of the European peoples, and because they are required solid political and economic fundamentals.
Several countries have recorded, with regard to the second economic criterion of competition in the internal market, as considerable progress which is approaching very quickly to compliance with the requirements for membership.
That is why we want to coordination with the programmes of the national governments, of Parliament and the other institutions as closely as possible.
In every country's accession will be expected with a great deal of concern the opinion that the Commission expresses annually on its progress, it is going to be issued shortly, on 8 November.
We have chosen rightly the principle of differentiation, according to which each candidate country will be judged on its own merits.
This debate represents another opportunity to my political group to emphasise that the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and also of Cyprus and Malta, is the best guarantee of future for all of us in Europe, in the East and the West.
It is a matter of the utmost importance and, in spite of that, interestingly, little has been public attention.
The people spent jokes by saying that after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, enlargement is still five years.
The next time it will be natural in connection with the next elections to the European Parliament in the year 2009, but we strive for the greatest possible number of countries can join in the year 2004.
Moreover, there are six points that we are concerned about the method followed.
In fact, we are swimming in their own model of European construction, namely the simultaneous integration of all sectors of activity, beyond the traditions or the specific characteristics of again transformed into a trap.
Your words have the support of the President of the Central Bank Hungarian: "The European Union must provide the appropriate signals' Otherwise, Eastern Europe suspected that Europe does not work seriously on enlargement, something that could end in a dangerous disappointment about the promises of Brussels - and I quote the Hungarian spokesman.
But things must be clear: there can be no accession with reductions.
This is an idea force which is also a great idea: the enlargements are not carried out against the opinion, and the best way to make the enlargements to believe their participation in elections, since the elections are an expression of democracy and the method of the citizens' support for the political system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say something briefly about the conditions of the desired scenario here by several parties.
I would be very surprised if we do not exercise this pressure.
But I have already pointed out that all countries are approaching relatively quickly to the readiness for accession.
This means that the liberalisation of trade in the area of agricultural products is already agreed without the Poles have the concern that sink their agriculture.
It has taken efforts, but, in general, peace and trade have established stronger ties between the citizens, now even more solid with monetary union.
What must be the outcome of the negotiations.
The only amendment which has been tabled is already covered in my report, but I am delighted that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to stress the importance of equal treatment for the citizens.
This includes not only a law on public service, but also that there are opportunities for young people employed in the administration and an appropriate remuneration.
This applies both to Latvia as to the European Union.
It has planned the linking of the lita to the euro in the second half of the year 2001.
Mr President, Commissioner, Poland, the country for which I am the rapporteur, is the largest and most important, but, as we know, is also the most problematic countries preparing to join the European Union, which is so problematic that Some voices are about their possible exclusion from the first group, that of the countries that will be joining in the first place.
Poland, to the countries of the East, the countries that were communist we have too many promises which are not kept.
There is one point which always when it is a question of the Czech Republic, the problem of the Roma.
Slovakia is not condemned to the second group, and it is only logical to want to join when they do Czech Republic.
At the same time, I would like, finally, to make a comment on the internal policy.
Thirdly, and with regard to agriculture, the level of productivity is still lower than that of the European Union, it is important to ensure the total opening up of the agricultural market to the capital required for the privatisation of land, the modernisation of farms and marketing structures, as well as for the improvement of incomes.
Bulgaria anxiously awaits the time to join the European Union and NATO.
The acute poverty has been a major problem in Romania since 1990 and with the current government's economy, at last, is giving real signs of improvement.
I hope that these issues are becoming the priorities of the new parliament to take office in 15 days, and in the new government.
But also we point out that the final, fair and permanent solution must fully respect the relevant resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations, which is neither more nor less than the current international law, and the principles governing the European Union.
Malta has stable democratic institutions that work.
- (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we make our contribution to this debate.
They must also be applied, the European Community law is not only a law in "books, but it also has to be in the candidate countries a law in action.
This change is tough requirements to people in the candidate countries, but at the same time ensure their future, and the future of their children.
We have to devote particular attention - and I agree with the previous speaker - to the border regions.
In this context, the Commission must not be left alone.
The applicant countries want to achieve rapid economic growth, even if it is at the expense of a policy for the protection of nature previously established.
We are faced with a traffic and reshipment of bad habits, many of them linked to health.
. Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a strong and united European continent.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which is also responsible for the domination of transport and the trans-European networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the different sectoral Community policies in favour of a global policy for regional planning.
But first I would like to make the observation that the transport infrastructure is going to be crucial for the success of enlargement.
- (DA) Mr President, I join in the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is now the greatest task that faces the EU.
It has had a great pressure on the traditional social values in Central and Eastern Europe.
EL PPE will not usurp the responsibilities of the candidate countries in terms of the pace of accession, because we cannot give a date for this.
The second point is the mention of dates.
There is also another reason.
Thirdly, the acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the various countries and for the EU as a whole depend - and this has been demonstrated - Denmark in large measure to reduce social and democratic deficits in European policy.
Populism is the epithet shameful that the technocrats attributed to the popular will when it is expressed in a sense that it is not appropriate for them.
Ladies and gentlemen, have a pause to eat and relax. We will continue at 9.00 p.m.
In a more long-term perspective, there will be a single currency throughout the continent.
In these matters are focused internal struggles in each of the countries.
We are inviting you to fight for a different Europe, of all the peoples, who has fought for all these inhuman characteristics, in which the people are masters of their fate, to develop relations of peace, freedom, fraternity, beneficial mutual cooperation.
I have publicly praised the work of these organisations and, in particular, the Romanian Challenge Appeal which is based in Birmingham and other organisations Irish supported by many people, including Daniel O ', Donnell Irish varieties artist, who promised a million pounds and recaudó that amount in Ireland and other parts of the world.
The Nice Summit, above all, it must provide clarity about whether and how the EU is to act on its part to be extended in depth and in good time.
The Poles are asking: are we paying when we adhiramos or will be in the second category?
I am sure that, with goodwill and with the help of the European Union, it will be possible to find a solution that will enable the two communities to live in harmony and prosper as they have done for centuries.
But we have also dealt with the issue of minorities, since the issue of the integration of these minorities, including the linguistic integration, it is also important in these countries.
The requirement for membership is basically the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
We have talked about the benefits of enlargement, and this is one of the areas in which Lithuania shows us the way.
Imagine if we were all like them!
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank and congratulate Mr Brok and the other rapporteurs, but, first of all, I should like to confine myself to Slovakia, more specifically, to the political situation of minorities.
I would urge you to determine a date in Nice until when provided to complete the negotiations with the most advanced candidate countries - without mentioning names.
The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in its progress for the entry into the Union and, of course, making the planning of this aid will be even more decentralised.
The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups of civil society, the government and Parliament plays a very important role and, as we have seen, is also positive.
We are putting an end to the division of Europe into two, and not creating a new division.
All this is contained in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and congratulate him very sincerely on behalf of our group, for this report.
From this point of view, I believe that the Cyprus issue is going to determine Europe's ability to see its political characteristics.
I live near the Baltic Sea, which concerns us all.
The political vision remains the same.
That is why I was very nice to listen to Mr Klaus Hänsch, who spoke on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, when he hoped that the Commission send a real assessment of the consequences of enlargement, and also on the economic impact that will arise in the event of enlargement.
I should like to highlight three aspects such as social democrats.
The EEA, including the issues of the first pillar, will allow the access of the economies of the candidate countries to the internal market and will give the young and science the right to take part in the exchange programmes, but instead we will not force the EU to widen its system of agricultural subsidies to these countries, the EEA Agreement would give a positive impetus, mainly to the economies of the candidate countries - in need of growth in order to bring their societies able to join, but also to the national economies in the EU, because it is estimated that, by means of economic growth, we could cover even two thirds of the total costs of enlargement, and perhaps even more if going to the model of the EEA.
Secondly, let us not to the idea of the big-bang consists of accepting a large group of candidate countries at the same time, as opposed to the principle that the countries are accepted by their own merits.
Thirdly, we must do everything in our power to prepare until 2003 to the European Union for the enlargement process in the direction of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
In this context, I should like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council, and to point out that the Council recently responds with a significant delay in the written questions from Members.
It is worrying that this is happening in a country which is going to join the European Union.
I am asking for referral back to committee for its preparation.
Mr President, today we are going to discuss and vote on three reports on this matter, two of which are mine.
All those involved in the food chain would benefit.
The safe food have a cost in the whole chain.
We must therefore go along with Mrs Paulsen and the Commission, and to adopt the principle of no-disolución, to give certainty to animal feed and to protect European consumers.
The directive in 1999 is a document well thought out and can already displayed some success, because we have managed to reduce the burden demonstrable manner.
But simply accept the possibility of 'water' products is not the solution.
Very quickly, that we must insist on Amendment No 37 on dioxin.
On this point, we are in agreement.
For this reason, the result is that, as European consumers, we will have to continue buying meat and milk and milk products produced in the world markets with feed which do not bear any kind of relationship with the thresholds and the limit values that we have established as a European Union, and with a system of feed production which is becoming raw materials on the international markets, free to confuse any principle and wording before the marketing their products on the territory of the Union.
Before the second reading, we need to know the Commission's view on how to carry out the assessment of the risk factors.
On the contrary, it would be unfortunate if it is adopted, for example, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, which would mean that overshadowed the possibility of the Member States to intervene promptly in relation to the new dangers that are discovered.
The protection of consumers begins with animal feed, on the content of the feed, your statement and, finally, their administrative control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Paulsen on undesirable substances in animal nutrition deals with an important issue which, like all the important issues, raises a number of discrepancies.
Mr President, the debate on this excellent report by Mrs Paulsen had emotional nuances in a few points, and I believe that, once completed this debate, we must assume that the requirements of the industry of cattle fodder are certainly strict but then we can make the quality should be amended by adding components.
These three proposals address, individually and collectively, the serious shortcomings that the dioxin crisis has brought to light.
Amendment No 33 removes the possibility of re-exporting the country of origin is not the regulatory items.
Amendments Nos 41, 42, 43 and 44, which propose introducing the possibility of dilution under certain conditions of raw materials for contaminated feed, are also unacceptable.
That should be sufficient, bearing in mind our commitment to set up an early warning system covering the whole of the food chain and animal feed in the new proposal on the food authority.
Commissioner Byrne, after this directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs behind an old problem, namely that of open declaration.
This is a benefit that has brought me this morning 's sitting.
If we do, if it transponemos quickly and if quickly complete the codecision procedure, we will have gained a great deal, and I am sure that we will be able to keep a very strong position and unanimous before the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the future can happen again, or at least it cannot be ruled out that in animal feed raw materials are introduced polluted.
The BSE scandal was the most serious example and better known.
The common sense - as the rapporteur said - would clearly have an open label, to present the list of ingredients.
I believe that the technical qualifications and competence of the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to judge on the issues related to agriculture and also with animal feed is indisputable from the point of view of the search for a solution with a practical guidance and practicable, that the farmers and consumers to be able to apply and to understand.
That is the positive side.
In my opinion, this is a legitimate right to information that should be met.
I would ask, Madam President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries and on my own behalf, to send our condolences to the families of the victims and to the local authorities of Brittany and Marín, Galicia, where most of the victims come.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Is there a Member who is opposed to the tabling of this oral amendment?
This is just as the rapporteur has explained to us.
The majority of its technical proposals deserve to be supported enthusiastically, for example those relating to food safety, the decommissioning of nuclear plants first generation, to the protection of the environment, the fight against social dumping, the essential code of conduct for companies in the west when working in the East, etc. It is a huge task, and also an absolute priority.
At the same time, the obstacles to overcome are considerable, especially at budgetary level.
The extension to thirteen countries not only change the geopolitical context of the European Union, but also alter its structure, because the total population will increase (+28%), but at the same time the number of disadvantaged regions.
In this context, we must bear in mind that, due to its strong social and economic weight, an agricultural and food industry competitive will have a decisive importance for the success of the process of transformation and restructuring of the candidate countries.
In this regard, I would like the outermost regions, including six of the seven remain in the group of the 10 poorest in the EU, benefited from the Structural Funds, not only on the basis of the sole criterion of GDP, but also on the basis of geographical indicators, demographic and social.
As we reject, for the sake of the French, we cannot, in conscience, adopt its extension to the countries and the people of the east, just released from the communist dictatorship, that we still do not know the technocratic and totalitarian trap that they want fall.
We would have to content ourselves with the national reports and, as far as possible, a short resolution, but full of substance.
The current system, with subsidies, aid and quotas, must be replaced by free trade and the adaptation to the markets.
The importance and the extent of the problems raised by the enlargement is not incompatible with the double language that it has been used within the European Union.
For me to talk about enlargement means not recognising the party or non-party of some countries to Europe.
Our neighbouring country has worked with determination over the last ten years in order to meet the criteria for membership.
Latvia has a place in this Chamber, not only because overall, its progress give it the right to this' credit 'trust essential to complete a negotiation of this kind, but, above all, and above all, because in Europe is at home.
Gawronski with this report, and I believe that Poland is the Member State, between all those who have applied for membership, which deserves more than other our support, given that, without the very important initiatives in Poland, would not have fallen Communism and today we are talking here about this problem.
This may not be so obvious to the population, which is still largely Eurosceptic.
I appeal to Prague to welcome this signal, this request, this request for a dialogue, and to respond to him and ensure, together with this House, so that it is possible to overcome the legacy of a nationalist era.
I welcome the Wiersma report on Slovakia's application for membership of the European Union, and I share the greater part of the conclusions reached by the rapporteur.
I am very happy to take this opportunity to welcome in particular to pensioners and the elderly of the Bulgarian Republic, as it says in the report by Mr
If Romania continues to make progress, and the European Union adapts its institutional structure and its policies in order to be able to face up to enlargement, I see no reason why Romania should not be admitted to the Union.
Anyone who is the solution that is taken with regard to the settlers, and it is one of the difficult issues, together with the return of land in both parties, this is too hard, if we do not make some caveats.
Unfortunately, some of the comments that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy discharged in the draft report on the request for accession of Cyprus to the European Union do not make it any easier.
This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of good will on the part of Turkey Cyprus and Turkey.
Stenzel report (A5-0243/2000)
Unfortunately, suffered a slight food poisoning in the European Parliament.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the ban on the proposal dissolved in the European Commission.
We must urge the countries of the ASEM in the present resolution to put pressure on the military regime in Burma in order to restore democracy.
We are partial in our approach and implementation.
We cannot afford to be cautious.
Some important aspects of the regulation are: firstly, the regulation of the burden of proof.
The equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the EU.
That is why we need legislation against discrimination.
In part, as a result, we have in front of us a great deal of legal and technical amendments seeking to ensure a level of equality of treatment against discrimination on the grounds of race, on the one hand, and on the grounds of religion, disability, age and sexual orientation, on the other hand.
I had to make an effort to balance, moderation and good legal technique and reflects his report - in my opinion - these qualities.
I also believe that the cases of discrimination are not so many to merit a piece of legislation.
In the action programme there are not enough funds to replace this work which is taking place in the fifth framework programme, which will, I hope, will be followed up in all the other framework programmes, although we will have to ensure that they are compatible.
Everyone is agreed that we must fight against discrimination, but the opinions differ as to how to do it, to what extent and in what methods.
I was able, in the committee, outraged against the fact that experts could also be out of the NGOs and yet have things to say.
We are also very satisfied with the provision of the directive, which shows that the equality of treatment for people with disabilities also means that is expected of companies to make changes in the workplace.
Only in this way will effectively fight against discrimination in all areas of human coexistence in Europe.
After all, as we teach the Anglo-Saxon great democracies, racism and discrimination are fighting with liberal democracy and not with the restriction or the gradual erosion of freedom of opinion and expression, association and economic.
We have a proposal that homosexuality amounts to the same category as the holy marriage.
We reinvigorated the positions of the European Union for specific situations suffered by people with regard to discrimination and equal treatment.
I, too, wish to dwell on the issue of religious exclusion.
There are those who has expressed its concern at the possible interpretation of the recitals relating to Article 1 which, once again, may seem unclear, but make a distinction between the sexual orientation and behaviour.
So there is hierarchy of discrimination.
In New Caledonia preference is given on a cromática basis of the skin.
The first positive element of the directive is the universal approach to be conceived the treatment of discrimination, which becomes particularly important if we want a proper implementation of the directive.
So those who come here to say that Europe must not adopt a directive the values we all want to defend, confusing.
We must not interfere in these achievements that we reached with so much effort.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
The experience has also shown that the promotion of legislative measures to combat discrimination is essential, but it is not enough.
We must avoid pointless red tape, that the only thing that will achieve will be to reduce Europe to a purely mercenary entity, politically correct, but meaningless.
I believe that this Parliament has been decorated as if it were a Christmas tree progressive legislation that the Commission would have put on the table.
I would like to start by thanking the two rapporteurs, Mr Mann and Mr Cashman, this excellent report.
The amendments that seek to highlight the importance of preventing and combating discrimination.
The second category is intended to clarify the text of the Commission's proposal and the third covers a large number of amendments that seek to adapt the present proposal to the Directive on the grounds of race, adopted last June.
In particular, Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 20 propose the deletion of the reference to discrimination on the grounds of racial and ethnic origin.
I cannot accept the references made by Parliament in Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We cannot wait for a public support for the operations of establishment of peace, if our troops are exposed to die as a consequence of shells from weapons that we ourselves have provided.
In my own country, to possess a escopeta need a licence, but not to install like vendor of weapons in a shed in my garden.
Another important point is the ban on the export, promotion and marketing of know-how and equipment used to inflict torture.
Having said that, I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Titley on his excellent report.
We need to extend our examination, on the one hand, as well as to the issues of binding force, to other aspects outside the equipment for strict military use, such as the disarmament and the increase in the efficiency of the police and the customs authorities, and then, on the other hand, the applicant countries, as has just been mentioned by Mr Wiersma.
The control of the circuit of the money is strongly more difficult to avoid the provisions on the arms trade.
The aim of the annual report is to discover possible improvements.
The European Union is currently examining the possibility of continuing the project after its expiry in November of this year.
We have defined a methodology and indicators and will be presented in the forthcoming Research Council '.
Thank you, Commissioner.
With regard to the problems of the SMEs, of course we have seen that in the framework programme, SMEs, as planned in the budgetary decisions.
This is, at least, which seems understood from the debate on the budget in Greece, and the fact is that many invoke the views of the European Union?
With regard to the pluridisciplinaridad, I share your view.
The first is that you mentioned specifically in its report, the involvement of the EU in national programmes.
It would be possible to discuss the European research area if we only represent 5% of this research.
Thank you very much, Mr Busquin.
On the one hand, and after the effort made to commit the funding completely end of 1999, in the petitions body earlier this year for the financing of new projects were necessarily very small.
But I repeat that Portugal did well in the previous period, which I would simply like to say, and I must say that the figures for 26 September, is that the funds actually committed on the part of Portugal and for the new period, but I am Commissioner for a year) achieve 2.6%.
Question No 2 by (H-0730/00):
Finally, the establishment of a high level of the contributions of practices and consumption on mineral oils does not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in cases in which the Member States tax resources encourage specific sector of industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case the fiscal state aid, which amounts to a subsidy.
For example, nuclear energy is a very clear and timely.
Subject: Budget Line on minority languages budgetary resources which the European Union spends since 1983 in favour of minority languages recorded a constant increase in 1995, when we gained their maximum amount, EUR 4 million.
Mr President, the Members of this Parliament, I am sure you know that the Structural Funds - and this is new - spend a lot of resources for cultural activities, because I have stressed, Michel Barnier, in that they are not only to invest in roads and airports, but also in people.
So the next year, the Commission is not going to formulate new financial commitments in this regard.
In relation to the specific proposal for financing, I cannot adopt a position, because we must respect the normal procedures.
- (SV) I have considered many alternatives.
And it is a reality that we have to face, because we speak of millions of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe.
The rules relating to the treatment of game, for example, of elk, also apply to the meat used for their own use?
If these rules are applied to the meat which consume hunters, would be a bureaucratic disaster for the hunting of elk.
When it has been completed this report, I intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of the lack of compliance with the time limits on working hours in the next few weeks.
At the meeting that I welcomed with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has already discussed this issue.
Our question was clear: what measures the Commission is taking?
The general product safety also obliges producers to make it easier for the consumer information on the risks.
The case of Maryam Ayubi is extremely alarming.
Question No 14 by (H-0745/00):
The attitude of the EU in this ministerial meeting in Vientiane and if, in fact, must take place or at what level must be represented in the EU will depend on the development of the situation in Burma, by December.
One last comment.
The elections are an important step for the people of Kosovo participate in the management of their communities.
I can tell you that the development of these elections has been more democratic, better than the elections in our own countries, in which many times I have participated or I was an observer.
But what we saw as a principle and not in any way, as the end of the process.
The reports calls for a better control and more closed on the arms trade and greater transparency.
We now find that every year increase the contracts for arms and components.
We cannot take real decisions based on information and apparent realities.
The provision for which have been kept together in the same DG should be subject to review.
Although these institutions should have the option of appointing an internal auditor, it is enough to impose certain minimum requirements for auditing the financial controller.
This proposal does not have the unanimous approval of this Parliament, as the Commissioner well knows.
Therefore, we do not have any objection to creating an independent internal audit service, to which we are giving the green light to the report by Mr van Hulten.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
The modernisation of the administration is urgently needed in our view.
An independent audit is essential in order to avoid mistakes.
The money will be spent in the future in a more precise objectives and more effective, and, of course, be better to ensure that the money is used for the purposes for which have been allocated by the budgetary authority.
With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like very briefly to point out the following: the Commission accepts the introduction of the additional recital.
That is why I should like to thank them for their proposals and their advice.
I would like to sum up the proposals in this report which seem to me the most important and viable, first, the creation of a group of experts formed by personalities of recognised standing, appointed by the Member States, in order to contribute to establish minimum standards of media protection of minors; secondly, the creation of a code of self-regulation between all operators in the sector; third, the opportunity to promote and to make available the filter systems for both the television and the Internet.
Unfortunately, I cannot subscribe to requests from the Liberals.
This is basically the task of the legislation of the Member States, which does not exclude, however, the possibility of a consensual agreement at European level on certain indicative values, by means of dialogue with all the parties involved.
However, in the equality of other circumstances, I think that it is the task of the parents dissuade their children to see this type of programme at home.
Parents need special assistance in this area, which must include the following: common parameters for the media protection of minors in the whole of the territory of the European Union; the installation and the possibility of having filter systems to affordable prices; legal provisions relating to the protection of minors and the responsibility of the media, the companies and the suppliers of the public and private sectors.
Then I am surprised, and that is a euphemism, to hear some say, during the debates in committee, that no proof harmful influence which may have, on children, television violence in all its forms.
With regard to the introduction of a code of self-regulation, we must note, particularly from a technical point of view, that in certain Member States, broadcasters have already introduced codes of adjustment for television screens that should allow parents cut off the flow.
The debate is closed.
In particular, my report replaces the valuable international generalisations for a referral back, in fact, of the decisions to the Member States.
That would be the least to give us this area of freedom is a fundamental right of every citizen of Europe.
There are still things, Mr President, that have not been paid since 1996.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Evans and Mantovani, for the work he has done.
I would recommend this report to the House and recommend support for the amendments tabled by Mr Evans.
Our human resources are our only future in a world where knowledge is what counts for more.
It does not solve the problems of green papers and white, black or red, but with a concrete action.
But Parliament, and it is their role, Parliament has pressed for researchers to be included in the same text.
Today we visit at a crucial time for the future of European integration.
However, we know that the process has not yet been completed and that its inconclusión threatens their vitality.
If we do not we now say, in this tumultuous and delicate stage in the European and world history, when we do?
None of us can claim to know exactly when and how sequence achieve these objectives. However, we all know that believe in them and very much want them, we will have the half-way stage.
We need to ensure that women benefit from the work induced, whilst preventing the recurrence of the same inequalities in the more traditional sectors: less skilled jobs, part-time work is sometimes not elected, precarious contracts and difficulty of access to the management posts.
It was submitted to the Council a proposal for indicators to measure progress in this regard.
Finally, and in a few words, the fourth pillar dedicated to equal opportunities reaffirms the integrated approach to equality with gender mainstreaming and specific guidelines.
I am thinking in particular of the violence suffered by them, one of the priority issues of my government action and also mobilizing in particular - I know - to the honourable Members.
We know that the measures for reconciliation of family and professional life encourage women in particular, although there is a studies on the current situation of the family and the role that women play in the same, which is no longer the traditional, given that society has changed a great deal and, at the same time, the family structure.
At times, including colleagues in this Parliament believe that there are, but this is not the case.
I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that equal opportunities begins at home.
This position seems to me embarrassing and ambiguous and deserves, I believe, consideration for the projects that are proposed to us, because it is not certain that, with all that desemboquemos in practice.
In this area there is no equality.
The image of European women, which is discovered in the course of the pages of our report, in our directives, does not square with those Danish women who are opposed to the euro.
In this connection I think it significant that the report insists that there is a balance to be struck numerical in all sectors of society, for example in the labour market.
That is why I believe that we have missed an opportunity in this report because marriage and the family are completely marginalised.
This is something that should also take account of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities!
We have heard that the previous presidency of the Council first reestructuró the Minister for Equal Opportunities of his country and then to remove it.
The salaries means of women are still below, on average, almost 28% of men, which contributes to women are the majority of the poor population and hinders their participation in social and political life.
This is excellent.
Today we see in Europe a impoverishment of women employees and in France, where 15% of them live, at the end of the day, with less than 3.650 French francs per month.
Not all countries have achieved follow his example and I hope that the example of France to end growing in other countries.
Obviously, the history of women is very long.
We must help the candidates to get to the level of the Community acquis.
But need your help.
That is not the case, but it is a good text, and then to think long and after a wide-ranging debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market chose not to table amendments.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, after a long debate, understood that it was not sensible to keep the legal uncertainty for six years, three years, which is the deadline is established, it is more a reasonable period of time that, with the appropriate means and diligence small, to establish whether or not there have been irregularities in a declaration.
This is Amendment No 15, which relates to fraud.
The aim of reaching a simplified communication but of high quality with a sufficiently flexible rules, with an improvement in the procedure recaudatorio and with greater adaptation of the provisions in the field of customs formalities, responds to one of the requirements of the single market, and it has been achieved, so much so that many countries have been based on it in order to be able to participate quickly in international trade.
I would like to thank Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, their effort and the interest with which they have worked in the drafting of this report.
Welcome
I hope that this does not change the meaning of the vote which will be expressed, but the truth is that we need to check the translation of the French version.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
It is recognised that the knowledge of foreign languages is a necessary precondition for mobility.
We also believe that the Member States, in themselves, will have to decide the taxes that wish to implement.
I regret that the necessary proposal to introduce a prescription deadline that will enable us to preserve the documentation for a limited period has not obtained a majority of the votes.
During the negotiations on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we are pleased with the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or philosophical beliefs not sectarian, disability, age or sexual orientation.
My final point relates to the budget for this programme, that is to say, 98,4 millions of euros, sum which is, of course, inadequate for the actions planned.
Of the arguments put forward in this amendment is explicitly that its purpose is also intervene in the age provisions in force in the Member States, which are, however, perfectly justified on the grounds of psychological development and have no impact in working life.
In my opinion, needless also stipulated in the new Article 12 (b).
With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
- (SV) We Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equality in the workplace.
But this will only says something of the workforce in an internal audit service and the importance of financial or of the usefulness of this service.
The EU has decided to create a common military capacity to meet the so-called Petersberg missions - the fight against the crisis and conflict resolution outside the territory of the EU, and yet we do not have a common defence policy.
The world would be more secure without arms.
With this resolution does not want to radically reduce arms sales to promote a policy of disarmament, but only to regulate them in order to secure the benefits of industrial groups are concerned.
The communication from the Commission recognises the problem but it does not propose practical measures ofuscada because it is in the logic of the liberalisation of the market and of competitiveness, and that no proposal concerns the harsh reality, especially for children, the profligacy of multinational companies, which, in the interests of profit, ignore the impact of its programmes and products and moving all the responsibility to the parents, inviting them to consume new products to protect their children.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that the measures designed to protect the young people of the violent and harmful programmes must not be limited to traditional television, but also apply to all means of communication.
With an average of three hours a day, is the most important human activity after the dream and, for adults, following the work.
On the other hand, women often take 'flexible' posts; the temporary contracts or the low wages are typical of the sectors that employ mainly women.
The fact that still fall as the first victims of the cuts in public expenditure, privatisations in the field of health, the right to medical and pharmaceutical care, how much more to the law on the programmes of prevention and information.
B5-0792/2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on the situation of crisis in Peru.
Mr President, I would in fact that, instead of holding a debate on Latin America for urgent matter address this issue following a well-considered discussion in the committees.
We must ensure that Peru to reach the goal of candidate countries that they are equal to the challenge and be able to respond to the demands of the Peruvian people of a policy of renewal and a substantial democracy.
The joint debate is closed.
However, we know that Afghanistan is not far away, that Afghanistan is the largest producer of opiates world and, therefore, we know and we can imagine the role of these mafias policies, which are not only policies, the expansion of trade in drugs.
It calls on the Commission to adopt humanitarian aid programmes intended to the Afghan people, in order not to forget anyone in the region.
The suffering caused this conflict is appalling.
For years, a budget line to finance programmes of mine clearance and prevention.
Mrs Paciotti, and I can assure you that today to ask the Commission what has happened and what is supposed to happen with the resources allocated to the withdrawal of mines.
B5-0794/2000 by Mr Medina Ortega, Mr Linkohr and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the kidnapping in Colombia of a Spanish Jesuit participant in the negotiations with the guerrillas.
Unfortunately, we do not want to have to speak again in Colombia.
The Commission has already expressed its willingness to coordinate the actions of the package in the next few days, it intends to allocate large resources for this purpose.
So, once again, apply double standards, and I believe that we must deplore.
The attitude adopted by the Albanian opposition is particularly incomprehensible, because it is deliberately refused to accept a solution intended to remedy an Albanian problem in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
I believe that this is something extraordinary that the Macedonians within their own country to reach agreements with each other.
However, the government, which has shown a great value to find a solution to the problem university and many other issues, requires clear positive signs as well as a strong support, otherwise, the consequences for peace in the area can be disastrous.
The PHARE resources earmarked for the year 2000 in the framework of the national programme can also be used to help the University during the next school year, that is to say, the 2001-2002.
I would like to point out that all the Greek Members of the European Parliament have reacted to this situation.
And as this relates to Greece, which has the biggest shipping sector throughout the European Union, basically concerns the safety of shipping in the whole of the Union.
In recent years, in our own waters, many lives have been handed over to the sea, not only in large ferries accidents but also, too often, between our fishing community.
On the contrary, exploiting the innocent victims in order to encourage wider aims of the shipowners.
We have to bear in mind that what we are trying to do here is the credibility of the European Union.
In conclusion I would like to stress that the Commission is firmly convinced that the problem of the European legal provisions on the safety of passenger ships must be one of the priority concerns of the European Union, and that it is a matter of guaranteeing a strict and uniform application of the same throughout the Community.
. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for repeating to have come a little too late for reasons which you know very well, in order to make a very brief statement on the two issues which are on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade, and in the ex-República of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
Commissioner Verheugen is going to express themselves, as Mr Solana, on the two issues that we are discussing this afternoon, that is to say the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
We have to be prepared to comply with this promise in respect the will of the people.
Madam President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, taking part in this debate with reservations, because we do not want Parliament apareciese solely as a judge authorised to launch an anathema against this or that, at a time when, after the hopes so strongly encouraged here a month ago, we are faced with the tragic consequences of this new explosion of violence in the Middle East.
Madam President, my speech today is not based on a number of analyses distance, but in my own experiences of the past week, as if by chance, I was in Jerusalem and in the Gaza Strip when these disturbances took place there.
Although I am against all violence, cannot be dealt with in the same yardstick the Israeli violence and Palestinian violence.
I would like to ask Parliament, at this critical moment, to issue a statement of support to the courageous today have defended the freedom in the streets of Belgrade, echoing the support that we Europeans, not so many years ago we are those in other capitals also fighting for their freedom.
Madam President, the Europeans would be very inspired if collected in the flight the ball that we launched here by the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
The position of Jerusalem is the complicated issue in the negotiations.
For years, it has managed deceive the inhabitants of their country with its propaganda machinery and the brutal repression of the media and, unfortunately, has been fobbed off to many people in the Western world by creating a false picture of reality.
While the tragedy concludes, it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of a united Europe and free, to support the masses around the Yugoslavian Parliament and Mr Kostuníca help to achieve and carry out their mandate.
It is precisely its tough position makes us fear the worst at the same time - and the current events reinforce these phrases that was drafted a few hours ago.
I wonder whether the Commissioner is already looking into the steps that need to be taken to make it clear that we regard Koitunica as the legitimate elected representative of the Serbian people, and as the real partner with whom the European Union wants to speak from today.
The European Parliament wishes to express its full solidarity at this historic moment when the tyranny is faltering and triumphs of democracy.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0237/2000) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 2000/24/ EC so as to extend the Community guarantee granted to the European Investment Bank loans for projects in Croatia (COM(2000) 289 - C5-0336/2000 - 2000/0122(CNS)).
We must welcome the new political direction that began in this country, following the presidential and legislative elections.
Among the European Union and Croatia exercises its functions, among other things, a group of advisers whose task is to offer you to Croatia its experience and technical aid within the framework of the negotiations for the agreements of normalisation of relations.
Let us not forget that until recently, Croatia was an example of a book privatisation programme completely failed, of which only benefited a few process must be supported in its entirety.
The amount of EUR 250 million in the form of a loan from the EIB for the period 2000-2007 we are debating will not be a milestone, but will help and promotion.
That is why it is not right to speak in the report ´ ` democratisation.
When Croatia and Slovakia managed for the first time, an apparent independence, acted as servants of Hitler's regime.
We could also, of course, have considered the issue of the call for guarantees and the Croatian issue in the context of the debate yesterday afternoon, and the situation in Belgrade.
When it seems that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this Union of democracies will only be delayed a few days.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 6 October 2000.
(The House rose and observed a minute of silence)
My question is this: who is entitled to speak on behalf of the European Parliament on this Statute?
I would ask you, Madam President, that you will make every possible effort to speed up the procedure in the Committee on Petitions on a letter of protest that they have submitted over thirty social groups and NGOs against this situation, in which it has blatantly breached the Community rules on radiation protection.
The autopsia practised in Georgia has clearly shown that this was a murder as possible to torture.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to take a big step towards our dream -, which I do not agree with.
That is the basic legislation and the basis for any other rules for modified plants by genetic engineering.
Of course, it is a metedura leg to another.
(The sitting was suspended at 5 40 p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.)
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0291/2000) by Mrs Van Lancker, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council [COM(2000) 379 - 0508/2000 - 2000/2219(COS)], the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the agenda socio-política.
Thirdly, only one question: to emphasise the importance of this open method of coordination does not mean that this method is going to replace the social legislation, because we have to set in Europe, too, the social rights, we need to dare to draw up the minimum social standards and it is essential to make a social legislation with a view to the European internal market.
Similarly, in our Opinion support the social dialogue and cooperation with civil society and in particular with the women's organisations in the countries that are preparing its annex to the European family, since we should achieve a uniform development to continue the steps and the logic of the rest of Europe.
The action areas listed in the communication of the Commission have been the subject of an overall agreement.
I would like to remind you, at this stage of my speech, which will be held in Biarritz European seminar, which I will chair, on this subject on 4 and 5 December.
With regard to the fight against exclusion, we have made a great deal of progress to define, on 17 October last, in the Council on 'Employment and Social Policy ", appropriate objectives of fighting poverty and social exclusion, which will form the basis for national action plans.
I have heard in some quarters that, after having read the report, agree with the diagnosis, but not with the formula.
Technological development and new methods of organisation also speak in favour of a flexible cooperation where aiming to objectives and to achieve results and less rigid regulation.
We need to find that, in our view, the obsoleteness that they are accused those who hope that a market without obstacles is the best of all worlds.
Of course, this has helped to reduce the discontent among the workers in our country and to increase investment in the country from the outside.
On the other hand, the method used seems more questionable.
If we talk about a Charter of Rights and if we look favourably on a European Constitution we cannot be estrábicos, but that we must say that we have to take all the necessary steps, but this requires a more careful legislation, and I do not believe that.
I would like to point out critically the lack of initiatives on the new challenges in the employment protection, on the participation of workers and labour relations.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner and the Minister, Mrs Péry, for this presentation of the social policy agenda.
As we know, the conservatives are opposed to these points, our group attaches particular importance.
The third issue is enlargement.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
The Commission measures must be complemented by studies on the individual access to health systems and systems of social security and pensions, about the shortcomings in the organization of work and, perhaps, also on the general reduction in working hours.
In this way, women will feel Europe more closely, and Europe will gain with the interesting and innovative ideas which should be expressed through its relationship with this programme.
We look forward to an annual report from the President of the Commission within the framework of a debate which will take place every year in the European Parliament.
I am also delighted that provision for a better distribution of the care of children in order to facilitate the balance between professional life and family life.
My group will take into account in the final vote.
(The President cut the speaker off)
I welcome the Commission's new approach, and very well thought-out the proposal for a decision for the programme 2001-2005.
I believe that the large number of amendments adopted shows the common sense of the European Commission and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
On the one hand, over the past year I have received a number of petitions from companies that have a certain amount of impotence in the wake of certain decisions on mergers, especially in relation to cases where they have needed to call the decision of the Commission before the Court of First Instance.
I should also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner Monti on when we can expect to be put in place a public register, effective and efficient of state aid, and also on when we will long promised table of results.
In addition, I should like to say to Commissioner Monti that it is important that we find in the next report a paragraph rather more extensive dedicated to the financial services sector.
What I said applies not only for the area of energy policy, but also for the whole of the other areas.
Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work he has done with regard to the two reports which send a positive view on your personal work as the Directorate General for Competition.
I stress this because the market cannot regulate everything and, in this regard must not exist nor can there be unrestricted competition.
Mr President, today, nobody disputes and, of course, I am not going to do, that the public aid alter the conditions of competition and constitute a harmful element which encourages the inefficiency of the companies.
Hearing you deny the fact that public aid has decreased over the period 1994-1998, when the Commission itself acknowledges this reduction, has been rather strange.
And, of course, Mr President, although my opinion relates to the XXIX report by the Commission on competition policy, we cannot fail to look to the past, but nothing more than to learn for the future.
Mr President, during the time that I have, I wish to address three points: the modernisation of Community law in the field of competition, the activity undertaken in 1999 in connection with the rules of competition and the issue of state aid.
The Commission has continued to act firmly and in particular against cartels and the abuse of dominant position.
Mr Rapkay, the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the pursuit of its policy on competition and I do not believe that such support is going to disappear.
This mechanism can be activated or at the request of a Member State or in accordance with Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which is still in force during the third phase of Economic and Monetary Union for the Member States, which are the subject of an exception, namely Denmark, UK and Sweden.
For the future, the recourse to the capital market should continue to be the only possible option.
I therefore ask that the report in its present form will receive the conformity of the House, and that can be used in the context of the material of proliferation of vine in the internal market.
Today, its review is necessary in view of the development of phytosanitary regulations and of the scientific and technical progress has been made, in particular in the increase in vitro
Furthermore, with this principle of precaution, I believe that refer to the possibility of genetic modification means, for example, to reduce the intensive use of plant protection treatments, and in the sense of caution are of Mrs Lienemann 's amendments.
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the principle of precaution, both in spirit and in letter, if unfortunately the articles and amendments which I have just mentioned were not withdrawn, would be to stick to the opinion of Marianne Isler Béguin, and thus of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and vote in favour of its abolition.
Mr President, if I may, Commissioner, could you give us her opinion on the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and Amendment No 1.
The only point on which could be discussed is whether I should have taken note of the French Government, I sent the resolution of losing the mandate of Mr Le Pen.
I would remind the honourable Member that the vote will take place after, at 12.30 p.m.
In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
The preparatory group will play its full role on 19 November, the date of the next meeting at ministerial level.
We needed that climate vivificante, as Mr Moscovici and I also felt, at the level of Heads of State or Government, a very serious sense of collective and historical responsibility at a historic moment in the construction of Europe.
Quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to ensure, from now on, in relation to these matters of the qualified majority, that we do not find ourselves more short of the spirit or the climate of Biarritz.
The small countries are not on the orders of the larger countries of the European Union!
I would be grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council to clarify this point.
On the one hand, the presence of the President Kostunica was an historic event.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, there are still profound disagreements on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council, as you have pointed out.
It seems to me that we are going in the opposite direction.
Those who remain outside of the enhanced cooperation actually enjoy the same freedom that the passengers seats back from a car.
I am not here, nor by the honourable Member, to interfere in the German domestic affairs, but I believe that this position is deeply coherent and is, moreover, the direction that the Commission wishes, if I am not mistaken.
We have begun to exchange views on this matter, it is clear that all the Member States want to maintain this ceiling after enlargement.
I believe that will not be the case.
The first is that at times we have had the impression that in Biarritz there was an obsession with the debate between the Member States small and large.
From this point of view, I believe that it is not enough to say that we must safeguard the Community method.
Furthermore, when the candidate countries join, each Member State must be able to maintain a deputy Commissioner or main.
The wording of the text of Article 93 is all the more dramatic, once achieved the first wave of enlargement, we will find it even more difficult to move towards a qualified majority.
We need to convince the citizens of these countries in the clear merits of any new European Treaty.
Imaginar fears fed for generations could give smoothly new to the final appeasement, prelude to reconciliation, it would have been to ignore the workings of such crisis.
I am also intranquiliza the slightest correspondence in the question that Parliament is asking on democratisation.
The guilty of this are rather those who advocate that major reforms before enlargement.
In the decision of the head of the Israeli Government to freeze peace negotiations by the violence in the region and to focus its efforts on the creation of a government of concentration on the head of the opposition, Mr
We have learnt with a great deal of satisfaction of the victory of the Yugoslav people and the choice of Koitunica as president.
I would advise Mr Barón Crespo to ask their Italian colleagues to explain why they are in government in Italy with a party Communist declaradamente and for what they are preparing to take part in the political elections with another party declaradamente communist, Refundación Communist Party.
On the contrary, in this area, we need to make progress in the application of the codecision procedure.
The Commission, which has the opportunity to take their decisions by simple majority, is in a more favourable situation in order to give this momentum in the future.
The Union does not need now visionaries who have the telescope because in the year 2030, but needs leaders who will be able to obtain the problems that will bring the completion of enlargement in a period of 3 to 8 years, as well as to provide responses to them.
Therefore, it is an open work it has not fallen from above and has not been imposed.
The debate is closed.
In the absence of this fundamental reference, in the best case left to understand each other, and in the worst, we slaughtered each other.
Democracy has improved in Europe, but, for its part, the European democracy is ill.
Today, 24 October 2000, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament says something simple, and very high: the European constitution? Yes, you can get it, yes, we want.
In other words, the same reflects the idea that the island is a criterion enough.
I shall concentrate on the salient points of the report by President Gil-Robles, I would simply like to say that I find excellent.
In the first place, the simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute in Florence.
According to the information - I am going to be technical, forgive me - which has been communicated to the Presidency, I believe that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version, only makes reference, for the implementation of the cohesion policy, to the least favoured islands, and not to the islands in general.
Mr Duhamel, no doubt you will agree with me to say that if there is no success in Nice, there will be no place, at least there is no credibility, for a reflection on the future of European integration, at least in the present framework.
The aforementioned European Constitution must also establish a clear distribution of tasks between the Member States and the European Union and to incorporate the dynamic of European integration in those areas, such as foreign and security policy, in which a joint action is essential.
They could also be necessary to overcome persistent blockages.
It is necessary to clarify the distribution of powers and the principle of subsidiarity.
As you know, in the different Member States and between the various social forces there are very different views on this.
Unfortunately, the final objective of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
In fact, in the strengthened European home, there will be invited to people's military table, monetary, possibly tax, and then the other peoples, which will be on the side.
It is clear that the second version is incorrect because, firstly, one way or the other Structural Funds cover the economically disadvantaged regions and, secondly, because if this were to be the correct interpretation, not talking about the adoption of the declaration No º30.
Mr President, I would like to focus my small sixty seconds in the report by Olivier Duhamel, that it is a good report, because it dares to say the things clearly, and the fine words of our rapporteur has convinced us finally to a short while ago.
In my opinion, the unity of Europe can only be political.
We believe that the new Constitution should be about to enter into force for the next European elections.
Consequently, described as' least developed 'applies both to the island regions and the other regions and, according to the proposal from Mr Barnier, here is a modification of the Italian text of the Treaty, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
The debate is closed.
As my colleague said that he was going to vote against this amendment falls.
Mr President, what we are asking for here is a formula for chaos.
I welcome the adoption by Parliament of the Trakatellis report, which states that are set very high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood products.
If the European parliamentary immunity is autonomous, the French authorities should have been taken of the lifting of the Mr Le Pen.
I am particularly disappointed by the vote of the European Parliament on the report on the proliferation of vineyards.
For some, alcohol is such as tobacco and drugs, a product which damages to consume and to the people who are around; others, on the contrary, above all as a source of employment and something that we can make a lot of money.
The rapporteur broadly welcomes the proposals in the White Paper on the part of the Commission in this regard, but I am worried about the possible consequences of the reform, primarily designed to decentralise the application of the rules of competition.
- (FR) While, in the debate yesterday evening, I congratulated Jonathan Evans on his work, I had to express my profound disagreement with the excessively liberal approach, even ultraliberal, of his report.
The Agency for Industrial Development in Ireland has been reorganising its direction for half of all new jobs arising from projects in new areas in the Objective 1 region in the next three years.
The state intervention, funding and other economic or tax incentives, on occasions, come to balance this situation before the alarido which cause the consequences of this policy.
(The sitting was suspended at 14.06 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
The situation in October 2000, when little to take a decision on the figures for the 2001 budget, is the following.
However, the Council was not hesitate to reduce agricultural spending in 555 million in total.
For the rest, we also feel, of course, that we do not simply 400 additional posts, as well as the current.
I can only recommend the Council to follow our example.
The administration of this House must be, therefore, in the service of the Members and not the other way round.
The Court of Auditors is that fewer concerns we are at the moment.
Finally, we are also corresponds to examine the Ombudsman's budget.
On the contrary, we believe that it should strengthen research, particularly with a view to the accession of the candidate countries.
We also propose that we continue regularly reporting to Parliament.
And when it welcomes a legislative consultation on social issues, culture and the environment - the Commissioner is going to recognise that I am right - we met the Budget Commissioner, the Ministers of Finance and the members of the Committee on Budgets to read together, so as not to commit a financial nonsense.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your welcome.
For the rest, room for manoeuvre, in particular with regard to the limits of heading 3 and of heading 4, the Council wants to give the Parliament, ultimately responsible in relation to these non-compulsory expenditure, the opportunity to express their priorities without returning to the Council, I would simply like to dwell on the most salient points of the Council's draft budget.
These two issues are often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council, which could give pattern, if one is not careful, the tension between the two bodies of the budgetary authority.
The situation is similar when it comes to the structural policy.
The outcome of the conciliation on this summer was also satisfactory, as has already been pointed out by Mr Colom i Naval, specifically in the sense that, in the future, will be extended the information to Parliament in relation to the legal bases with repercussions on the costs.
Allow me to remind you that in the financial perspectives that were adopted last year only promised 1.850 million for the Balkans for the period up to 2006.
I would ask you once again to examine this proposal - the Commission left on the table - without predetermined trials and look as an opportunity.
That material was, of course, useful for the preparation of the budget for 2001 and for the granting of discharge for the financial year 1999.
Despite the fact that, as a member of the same, I appreciate very much the work of that committee and despite the great respect for the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I must insist on two amendments that our committee is presenting them once again now before the House and which are still important, even if the figures have been reduced.
With these measures we propose to ensure that judicial control back to operate fully, to restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and consolidate its character of the community of law.
The removal of this initiative on the part of the Commission, without replacing it with any other, was clearly contrary to the political will of the Lisbon Summit and the priorities of this House.
It was a staggering decision, and many of us had the feeling that this very important programme had become just a football match between the Committee on Budgets and the Commission.
The third issue is the European agricultural policy as it now appears in the budget proposal.
If employment is the political priority of the Union, the fishing industry, as an economic sector, cannot remain on the sidelines.
I am particularly pleased that we have been able to ensure the funding of the programmes Socrates, JUVENTD and Culture 2000, to an end at the end of last year.
For example, our aid to the Mediterranean countries have a delay which affects the budgets for many years.
Mr President, in the debates in previous years spoke on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which has been Mrs Iivari this afternoon.
But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we must not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends only 1% of GDP and the administration of a large part is carried out by the Member States.
Let me turn to the global strategy.
That way to the strategy of our group, because what is fundamental in our view is the desire that the funds to be an adequate return for the citizens of Europe.
On the contrary, we must work for a Parliament which campaign in favour of transparency, efficiency and effective democratic control of the European institutions.
When that happens we must consider how we can resolve this problem.
We want to promote the processes of democratisation and we want to maintain a balanced relationship between the traditional areas of foreign policy we have now.
The biggest problem in the preliminary draft budget are related to the external actions.
Of course, we need a rigorous management; we support it and we should not try to avoid it.
It is a very special initiative, particularly in the first reading, and this is a thankless initiative, since we cannot, in the current context, to obtain a majority of votes in favour.
Having said that, the importance of funding for Kosovo is not without problems.
The budgetary policy must be that the citizens faith in European policy.
All the measures to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises also, therefore, deserve our support.
the level of budgetary implementation.
Preservando this strategic line in the approach to the budgets for this year and next, the European Parliament holds its full place in the budgetary process.
With the transfer of EUR 175 million, we have calculated, approximately EUR 25 million more than we expected.
As far as Meda is concerned, the Council said that the compromises were not an issue, in view of the eight years of delays in payments.
I think that Mr Duff was present this morning when mention the European Council in Biarritz.
My reply will be very simple.
Today, I am a little more satisfied that in July with the attitude of the Council, because, as many times in crisis situations, the European Union will always find the final authority to arrive at the international scene and make its voice heard.
The question, Mr President, to conclude, if there is not a form of greater pressure that the proposed by the President in your information, and whether the aid that we are going to give will be completely different from that of the United States, that is to say, not directed at the fumigation of crops, but to the replacement of crops and also to the social aspects and not to the military.
The questions which I and other Members have asked to refer specifically to the situation in Colombia.
deal with the same subject, Question Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
Subject: Tax on financial transactions The demand in favour of the taxation of speculative capital has been gaining ground in the last few months, with the proliferation of the committees ATTAC (Association pour unites Taxation south Transactions financières et pour l ´ Aide aux Citoyens) in France and in Europe, and the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and in the Senate of the same country.
Furthermore, I would like to respond to the question of its influence on the volatility of the currency markets and, in particular, of the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand on the speculators waiting devaluations of the order of 20 to 50%.
On the other hand, called for in paragraph 6 to the establishment of an international organisation of arbitration for cancelling the debt of the countries of the South.
For the rest, it is what happened in the case of the euro on the scale of a year, to regret or hope.
I would add, Danielle Auroi said a moment or two ago in connection with the countries of the South, which some estimates made by specialists, give interesting figures: for example, a wide range of 50 000 to 250 billion dollars, which could be recovered from a Tobin-type tax. The UNDP, for its part, the figure in a sum of 40 billion dollars a year, an amount that could be enough to give minimum conditions of life of hundreds of millions of people who do not have in the countries of the Third World.
The disease has been detected over the past few months, for example, in different parts of France.
Taking that appearing a representative of the French Presidency, I ask: are these massacres beef should be settled by the funds of the budget for the EU or you will pay for the national budgets, and do you think that it would be appropriate to pay from the EU budget?
I would ask you indulgence to hear the response, please.
Therefore, the action of the two governments concerned is limited by this international law.
It is a mystery which the Commission can say in February and the Council in July how much is needed.
By acting in this way, in the name of subsidiarity, in fact, the Union is giving up one of your tasks as has happened in these weeks in northern Italy as in Spain.
As a Member of the European Parliament interested in this majority, how can endorse the spending of 11 500 million of taxpayers in the United Kingdom - that is to say, our current annual contribution - when there is a broad public approval?
With a flexible position on the part of the Council, could reach an agreement at second reading to close the budget.
If someone is not yet convinced, which simply look at the evidence.
Mr Joan Colom i Naval, Vice-President charged with the buildings, has already introduced this strategy.
The political messages in this year's budget are - as the Commissioner has already said Schreyer - many, the restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes to ensure better implementation of the structural policy, the monitoring of the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
The war by NATO has done so much damage and has caused so much misery.
In spite of what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints without undermining the agricultural budget required for sustainable rural sector in the current Member States.
And I can tell you a clear and unequivocal: Koitunica have to give an opportunity and I hope that in the coming weeks and months launch an amnesty, but, in the meantime, I would like to political and budgetary level political conditions are put to the implementation of these two new budget lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
The Yugoslav elections have demonstrated two things: the people has hastiado of the dictator Milosevic and at the same time relies on the teacher Koitunica.
Furthermore, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners will soon be in freedom.
To do so, inevitably caímos "financial engineering, redistribution and cuts either in general expenses either in the environmental and social costs either in cooperation, but the fact is that, despite that, the allocations for the Balkans will remain inadequate.
In this context, efforts are required to solve the major social problems such as, for example, unemployment.
There is an issue which is, of course, of great importance: we have started approaching the category four, but it has not yet been clear whether we have been able to give you a solution, because the Council refuses to provide clear ideas.
In all budget work the priorities are important.
That is not very serious in the next horizon to the expiry of the Treaty, but it would be worrying if the legal framework postCECA retain the possibility of extending a similar practices.
This to my third point, the challenge now before us.
The new financial agreement does not indicate nothing, and I have been able to see that the European citizens more wary of the politicians.
I pay great tribute to him for that.
The willingness to the dialogue between all the institutions concerned has given rise to an exemplary collaboration which will enable us, I hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
Those of us who represent the European values in a country sceptical of the EU are now a new argument in favour of the European Union, that is, better protection of personal integrity, something that is important for the people in modern society.
In my own country be reformed the law of personal data, depriving the parliamentary power over the decisions of the Commission.
Many other points also pose problems and deserve the trial of the practice to be insured.
The Commission would like, in the first place, to remember the compromise that we have all taken with the people of ensuring the protection of personal data processed by the institutions.
With this statement, the Commission accepts that the scope of the regulation to be limited solely to the activities of the first pillar.
With a view to honour the political agreement that has been concluded with the Council and the rapporteur to allow the adoption at first reading, the Commission rejects any other amendment that it is not part of the Paciotti report adopted by the Parliamentary Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, except Amendment No 69 which corrects Amendment No 41.
Therefore, it is urgent that the staff of the interservice group is rapidly strengthened in the heart of the Secretary-General of the Commission, so that all the proposed acts of a general scope can be accompanied, during its examination on the part of the college, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 299, a statement of detailed impact.
From the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I want to stress is that, in fact, can only be treated equally.
Given the importance of fisheries for the outermost regions, I can only feeling sorry about this.
Until now, under the chairmanship of Mr Delors was set up a group Interservicios for the outermost regions, we have travelled a long and fruitful path and who has presided over the group, I must express the deep appreciation of the outermost regions in Europe.
In fact, even before the Treaty of Rome was made reference to the French overseas departments, it was necessary to wait until 1989 and the programmes of specific actions linked to remoteness and insularity, the famous POSEI programmes, so that the European Union finally admitted that the permanence and combination of the structural problems of the outermost regions justified a specific treatment with regard to the other regions of the Community.
I do not doubt that the proposals put forward by the Commission to the Council will be the stamp of these qualities.
This question is becoming more and more important as we move towards the eastward enlargement of the EU.
I notice that this right to difference is no more than a product of the principle of equality, which also requires that what is different.
It is a document that my staff and I believe rich in ideas and does not shirk any of the issues of concern to the EU's outermost regions.
Your report, Mrs Sudre, quite rightly emphasises the need to act in a few moments.
With regard to the relaunch of the diversification of the economy, we have made progress in several key areas.
It is now important that in the context of the DOCUPS a large number of projects, but, at the same time as this action on the ground, we have to consider thoroughly on the specific needs, the access of each of these outermost regions to this information society.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Of course, inform the President of your speech.
I am concerned about the possibility of a general failure of many voting machines, which would question the decisions adopted by the House.
Both this Food Authority as the legislative proposals that we put forward, seeking to guarantee food safety, will have the support of this Parliament, Mr Commissioner.
Its main task is to provide scientific advice, because the debate on food safety also has to be credible.
Mr President, in conclusion I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive contribution and their willingness to take into account the opinion of the other committees.
When we are confronted with a possible risk is important to apply the precautionary principle.
On the still controversial issue of how far we should go as far as to allow him to examine the nutrition, and even to submit recommendations and to be consulted by those whose main task is to risk management, we have also said that in the field of security, the issues should at least be subject to the opinion and the advice of the food authority.
A central idea is to ensure the survival of the rich heritage of traditions.
It is not the laws and regulations which provide the basis for this respectability, but the integrity, high academic quality, independence, the sense of responsibility, transparency and comprehensibility.
Of course, it is essential from the basis of good scientific knowledge, in order to better assess the risks linked to the food chain, from farm to table.
Mr President, it is clear that there is a considerable enthusiasm for the creation of a European agency for food safety, as our rapporteur prefers to call it.
Given that the programme of the WHO we continue with the necessary funds and support, it would seem that there is no need for another agency, especially a limited scope as the 15 Member States of the European Union.
Food safety is the basic precondition for the consumer because consumers want to eat healthily and that we have to deal with.
If we do not get a new framework directive many aspects relating to the safety of food will only be worthless.
Consequently, we need to change the EU Treaty in such a way that the Commission give power to implement sanctions in the food field, in the same way that today is done in the field of competition.
I support all the players who support the strategy 'food for all' and working in the political, administrative or any other.
I do not share these words, because we know that man is not only body.
This should represent the real heart of coordination of the network of national agencies which, in turn, will have to be put in place and coordinate a network of centres of excellence for food safety at regional level.
I therefore believe that his Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 17 are perfectly compatible.
The reform of the food laws of the European Union will be carried out at European Union level.
Your report contains many proposals to change, but is limited to emphasise certain questions.
It is very clearly stated in the report and I am very pleased to do so.
However, the creation of a European authority of food safety is very positive.
It is to be hoped that all these criteria are met for the good of the citizens of the Union as a whole.
I believe that it is essential to set up temporary margins certain which must be informed by the European Commission in the cases of justified concern.
The EU must have the highest possible level of food security for its citizens.
The Commission now proposes the creation of a European food authority.
I fear that Europe will run the risk of allowing a inflated apparatus of officials who is unable to act.
As we create new levels of bureaucracy and spend more money, it is becoming less and less what we get in return.
Please stop parallel or similar work in several institutions.
However, we must prevent, under the debate on the White Paper, will increase in public opinion, the fear of a bureaucratic Europe that makes the quality of the products without penalizing effectively the fraud that threaten the health of consumers.
As you know, the Commission attaches the highest priority to its strategy on food safety.
The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation laying down the general principles and objectives of food legislation, which will provide the framework for future health protection measures in the area of food.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Turning now to our report, I welcome the proposal by the Commission, and I have to say that the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Development have worked hard to improve it even more, if possible, particularly on a number of points.
As has been said very explicit and clear Mrs Bonino, with the Commission's proposal for a regulation has been a new step forward.
The Commission's proposal for a regulation is too vague.
It is necessary that the provision for the elimination of mines is organised in a reasonable way and to fund research work for work of detection and disposal, instruments that can be used in a simple way on the ground in order to provide aid in the developing countries.
Over the past eight years, we have contributed over EUR 200 million from the Community budget, the fight against landmines.
However, we must not penalise the people who have a bad governance.
In the first place, as I have already mentioned, I believe it would be a mistake, well-intentioned, but counterproductive, to impose the accession to the Ottawa Convention as a prerequisite for Community assistance to the antiminas action.
I cannot accept Amendment No 19.
Secondly, the international community must improve the coordination of their efforts at the global level, as well as, in particular within the countries concerned.
Mr President, the Socialist Group shares the pride that has just expressed by Mr van Orden with regard to the role played by the European Union.
Just think of the bombs Soviet toy in Afghanistan.
Thank you for a good report.
Mr President, the Cambodian call mines eternal sentinels.
Faced with the uniformed people have justified mistrust built up over many years of war.
Mr President, I am very pleased that there is finally a European legislation, in the form of the regulation on anti-personnel mines and that today we have a very good report by Mrs Bonino on it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very sad topic.
It is not by chance that mines are, primarily, in areas in crisis, that is to say, in areas where they could have taken another kind of initiatives in order to overcome these crises.
In two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field as a sign warns the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
It is tragic that it is the civilian population who suffer because of the ineptitude of their leaders.
Let me, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome you on behalf of our institution, with which your country has a privileged relationship in the context of our common project to build an area of prosperity, security and peace in the Mediterranean basin.
All are stockpiled mines.
Mr President, as I agree with almost everything that has been said before, my colleagues I am not going to repeat, I will forego my speaking time.
The concept of the open cooperation is falling into the institutional structure dominated by the officials of the Commission.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, that decisions must be taken as close as possible to the people who will affect.
But as essential amendments from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have just to obtain a substantial majority, I voted in favour of the report.
Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the resolution on the results of the informal European Council in Biarritz, for two types of reasons: firstly, because I have had the opportunity to vote, recorded, separately, paragraphs 2 and 5, which has enabled me to express my opposition front to both.
In other words, around the table of the common European home, some would eat to the letter and the minimum menu.
And the democratic control must not fail, but we do not have wanted that the list of these rights and its inclusion in the Treaties, it was the main problem in the European Union.
There has been talk of referendums and of the amendments tabled to this report relating to these referendums.
In the election to the European Parliament in 1999 participated only 40% of the electorate, without considering the countries in which there is the mandatory vote or those that carried out at the same time national elections.
In order to achieve the desirable objective of a European Constitution, it is unwise to impose rigid methodologies and models, which inevitably would prevent the achievement of the desired objective.
A genuine social Constitution should levelling upwards the best of the gains for the world of work, women, immigrants and the citizens.
Even without denying a laudable intention to strengthen, clarification and deepening of the European Union, as well as a simplification of the texts necessary for the proximity of its operation in relation to the citizens, I did not vote in favour.
the distribution of powers and responsibilities
I think it is essential that the Charter of Human Rights in the EU involving the signing of the Convention on Human Rights by the European Council.
Gil-Robles aid, because it proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas some Member States of the European Union agree a joint action.
Allowing the decisions on increasing number of important issues will be adopted by a qualified majority runs counter to fundamental democratic rules.
Today, we are trying to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will ultimately lose the departure, in this case too.
This report is intended to specify the position in this sense of our Parliament (resolution of 13 April 2000).
- (SV) In general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is favourable.
The British Labour Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists welcome the adoption of its contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on enhanced cooperation, although I do not support all the details.
These islands must feel an active part of the European Union, which, I hope, become a paradise for tourists and a paradise for its inhabitants.
In the Middle Ages these regions and their inhabitants do not belonged to Europe, and it cannot even now be regarded as genuinely European.
In fact, the particularities of these regions, in general, due to the insularity and remoteness of the European continent, but also to the chronic dependence on a single production or a few, require appropriate specific measures to overcome these limitations.
Mr President, I should like to apologise for detain the presidency and the interpreters listening to my last explanation of vote and, in particular, I should like to express my solidarity with the translators in our explanations of vote, as far as I am concerned.
We can deduce quite clearly that the objective of the agency is channelling the powers of national defence, or to stop them, to put them in the service of the objectives of the Commission.
That does not mean that the Commission and Parliament denominen this agency 'European Authority' name, totally contrary to the spirit in which it is supposed to be based.
That is not what we are proposing the Bowis report, which gives the impression that food safety is fundamentally regarded as a new pretext for feeding the well-known process of strengthening the powers of the Commission, at the cost of national bodies and bodies to protect the security of the citizens.
For this reason, I believe that this statement I will condemn these indescribable actions on behalf of the European Parliament, which has always argued for the respect of religious freedom and tolerance between all their communities.
Madam President, I understand the objections made by the rapporteur, but in accordance with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development Agricultural not only vote on issues of money, but will also vote on a particular direction of the issue.
I would ask you to support introduce the necessary adjustments to the line 206, relating to the acquisition of property, depending on which amendments are adopted, so that we do not traspasemos our own limit of 20% of total administrative expenditure.
Before the vote on the proposal to amend 929
Section VI - Economic and Social Committee
Report (A5-0276/2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation introducing additional technical measures to rebuild the stocks of cod in the Irish Sea (ICES division VII) (COM(2000) 0190 - C5-0219/2000 - 2000/0071(CNS))
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
The export subsidies to dump the world market with food surpluses in the Union, which entails serious disadvantages for the food industry in many developing countries.
To achieve resources to increase the aid to the Balkans, the Member States must make changes in the current budget.
However, Parliament has managed to introduce important priorities, such as a greater concern for the fight against unemployment and poverty, many environmental issues and equal opportunities, and so on, we have voted against the right-wing attacks against the Life programme and the lobby European Women.
- (SV) In connection with the reimbursement of expenses of transfer of the Members of the European Parliament, we have our view that the compensation should only cover the genuine costs incurred by journeys undertaken in the performance of the office.
I am assuming that - and I hope that the Commission will bring solutions in a constructive spirit, undertaking the years 2002 to 2005 with a transitional provision.
- (DE) The purpose of the, above all, to a muzzle any rule of the European parliaments, the European Commission, in its regulatory fervour and liberalisation, has presented a proposal for a regulation directly applicable, rather than a directive, which has suffered a sad íter procedural through Parliament and the Council of Ministers to enter in force on 31 December 2000.
We support the reform efforts of the Commission and we are opposed to continue to favour this sector.
This has done much depend on the loans.
Nicholson report (A-0276/2000)
It is important to ensure that aid is not used for military purposes.
Our view is that the reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases must be primarily with the cost borne by the real pollutants (that is to say, the major industries), detriment of their profits.
Report Moreira Da Silva (A5-0271/2000)
We should spend this money concordando and coordinating the expenditure on research policy in all 15 Member States of the European Union.
It is a good thing that we know, precaution, the truth in terms of these substances.
The voting period has come to an end.
This will replace the national format which is now being used everywhere.
The loss of data in view of the statistics relating to the balance of payments is minimal.
As imaginarán, the most affected are small and medium-sized enterprises.
For years we have been demanding a harmonisation of effort, because, at the end of the day, it is possible to establish a rapid system, safe and cheap.
In my opinion, this report is of capital importance for integrating the citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro area and increase the acceptance of the Economic and Monetary Union.
There must be no obstacles or major differences when there is free movement of capital with a single currency.
However, the European Parliament and the Commission attach great importance.
I support the policy of two gangs with which the rapporteur wishes to induce the banks lazy to act.
Mr Radwan and Mrs Peijs on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which calls for the adoption of measures before the end of next year and, preferably, the establishment of these standards before they enter the euro notes and coins in circulation of euro.
The proposal tabled by Mrs Peijs and I goes in the direction of the banks to sit at a table not to make concessions, because we can only increase the political pressure.
After all, if the system for the realisation of cross-border payments remains as expensive as it is today, the credibility of the new system of coins and notes will be put into question.
We believe that this form of collection of statistical data on the system of internal payments of the Union is a relic of the past; that in an integrated area and unique, leave to be justified, and which constitute an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the market.
To listen to the speeches of some of my colleagues in the committees, who have been here longer than I am, I had the impression that the exercise of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, to which this Parliament is submitting for the fourth time, belongs to this category.
Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance for the support that will bring to my report.
If renunciation of this political action at European level, then it must offer more opportunities for the regions.
SMEs are the main source of job creation, both in quality and quantity. They play an essential role in social cohesion and regional planning.
The care with the study of proposals and the conciliation that has pursued with many interested parties have been a triumph for better defined and optimise the establishment of this programme.
Thirdly, we need to find the European added value.
It follows that the small and medium-sized enterprises can only go if the unemployment rate is reduced and the Civil administrations of all levels are not debt and have adequate resources to be available to the budgets of investment.
Businesses need clarity.
In particular, if an individual entrepreneur or a company with 250 employees with a project, it may not be the only way to receive funding the establishment of guarantees of 120%, but it must also be possible to receive funding for which has only a good idea.
The Member States, and even the regional or local authorities are behaving as genuine financial bombs, which is draining the taxpayers' money, that is to say amounts that are retained the majority of the population, including the most disadvantaged, and bombean towards the big companies and thus towards their owners and shareholders.
The breeding ground for small and medium-sized enterprises, including thousands of fragile that nourish attempts to human potential and ideas to large companies.
Of the measures that we have proposed here, which I would like to address the Commissioner is to facilitate and speed up the access to aid and information for people who addressed these companies can use them effectively.
All of them will hold a special place in the multiannual programme.
Finally, I welcome the idea to conclude an annual appointment to carry out an assessment of the introduction of the programme.
The recent incidents at the cost of the Greek minority in Himarë make it more urgent to the need to promote measures for democratisation, strengthening of the institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
A considerable number of Albanian leave their land by the uncertainty that prevails in your country, the social problems, for their social and family structures premodernas.
We need to have preventive measures specifically designed for Albania to contribute to the construction or reconstruction of the country, in order to make possible a dignified life in the region.
That is how a body to the other documents and the European Commission, for example, is refusing to publish the report on, among other things, the Customs Assistance Mission (CAM), drawn up by the Albanians.
Let us look at the truth as it is.
Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the broad view and extensive which demonstrates his report.
It is a matter of the greatest importance, created under the influence of historical, social, political and economic factors.
We will never know the true number of deaths.
The common commercial activities involving the people in a peaceful manner.
On the contrary, what I find unacceptable in this report, and I say this frankly, which is being confused with the cause, in other words, to mix up the procedure for balanced visa facilitation and, therefore, the opportunity to emigrate, to the cause of illegal immigration.
The major institutional reforms arising from the Treaty of Amsterdam have influenced the management of the issues of political asylum and immigration.
Thirdly and finally, the action plan and its methods of implementation must be assessed by areas.
But, of course, this request also requires us not go overboard in the volume of the adoption of Community rules.
Precisely now, it has to be to emphasise the strength of Community action.
I would also urge that the changes to the proposals on codification of European legislation in force are carried out by the inclusion of amendments to the directive, or regulations in force.
Entendido property, the principle of subsidiarity points in two directions: the taking of decisions at the lowest possible level, and the recognition that the lowest possible level can be, in fact, a very high level, when there is general goods in question to be lost at least to be protected in the same terms everywhere.
The report is a model of draft clear and concise and I hope colleagues will take with the seriousness it deserves.
The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market does not receive the enthusiasm of its members.
I referred to in the report on the draft Slim, because the Community legislation, and Mr Medina has already proven with the reading of one of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
Therefore, some aspects of the report I produce little enthusiasm, because I would have liked to have seen a report 'comunitarizante' in relation to the internal market, and, above all, on this point, of course, are not the winds blowing in the report.
What is important for the institutions of the EU is that we have a strong commitment to increase the quality of legislation, particularly with regard to the principle of subsidiarity.
The debate is closed.
The preservation of this situation could adversely affect the acceptance and in the opinion of the citizens of Europe about the euro.
Mr President, in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to prepare thoroughly the Karamanou report.
However, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to take advantage of our oral question and this debate to express both sides - both our motion for a resolution is addressed - and I would like to do so with great composure, a number of comments.
The peoples of the Union that we represent here demand.
But, has already taken a lot of water under the bridge, the agreement has prescribed and has not been replaced.
I can understand the reasons for the Commissioner, but I cannot understand the Director-General.
We could say that, eleven months after mooring services, we are still paying the previous agreement and the previous of the previous one.
Mr President, a year ago we had a similar debate and the fact that it has taken a year to start the negotiations highlights the difficulty of finding fishing grounds for the enormous fleets in the EU.
In the second agreement, things were very clear.
However, we must also realise that nothing is eternal, even the fishery resources!
For this reason, I am particularly concerned to make it clear that, if something has been stressed the Group of the European Peoples Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not only to support, defend and bring about the fisheries agreements, but rather to promote strongly its extension.
Thirdly, since it was interrupted the fisheries agreement, it has continued the exploitation of the fishing ground of the Sahara by Community and non-Community fleets that are not subject to the control of the Commission or the Member States: we talk about a major fleet in the Netherlands.
I can understand, since these fishing activities represented a source of income and work for a poor region in connection with the rest of Europe.
Another aspect that I would like to stress is that at the end of the month concludes the temporary aid paid to the fishermen and shipowners in order to compensate for this year stopping. It is an untenable situation, given that all prefer to work for aid.
This parliamentary supporter of Andalusian autonomy has been negotiating a year and proposing initiatives by the corridors, the offices, in the Committee on Fisheries and in the hearings with the Commissioner in order to take account of the particular character of the Andalusian fishing fleet in Morocco.
Spain has developed an outstanding way, the most difficult neighbourly relationship which has been repeatedly in history between Europe and North Africa, between Spain and Morocco.
As a Spanish Member of Parliament and Andalusian, maintain the right of thousands of Andalusian and Spanish families to maintain and to defend, and to defend in this Parliament, their jobs, which are in danger for almost a year.
We now proceed to the vote.
A history of almost twelve years, full of small satisfactions from the Chancellor, delaying tactics, hopes, staff need of placebos for the affected, persistent defence of old rights in relation to the citizens who sought nothing more than their rights.
As you know, the matter is very complex and affects 700 people who work in more than twenty-five Italian universities.
If reform and change the Italian legal system, as has been the case for the university staff, we do not believe that the Commission can intervene from the moment that all European citizens enjoy equal access to all professional categories.
The injustice lies in two people doing the same work, working together, they do, however, with different salaries and under different conditions.
Worst of all, in my view, is to have to inform you that a favourable judgment that does not constitute more than some reassuring words and will not mean any real change in their lives.
I would remind the Commission that I hope that responds to the judgment of the Court, in this case, Allué expressed in the following way: "by this dictates that it is contrary to Article 48(2) of the EC Treaty that the law of a Member State to limit the duration of the contracts of employment of foreign language assistants to one year, with the possibility of renewal, if, in principle is not applied this limit to other teachers'.
Well, I believe that these matters are leading to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular the freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
We still have jobs, as we have seen today in this debate, too many restrictions, too many obstacles to the internal market, and not only in this case.
The debate is closed.
(The President cut the speaker off)
I propose a minute of acknowledgement.
Are there any comments?
I support the proposal put forward by Mr Ceyhun, and I would be very grateful if the Council could clarify whether it is true intentions to present a new proposal on this matter.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group considers important this event that we do not believe that would receive a suitable treatment in the form of a matter of urgency.
Galeote Quecedo has just explained, I have the impression that you adheres to these reasons, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understood him correctly.
Madam President, for some time in this Parliament discussing the issue of sanctions on Iraq.
It is a matter of urgency that we hold a debate before the introduction of the amendment proposed by the British authorities, and for the Commission to point out quite clearly what the regulation to be noted in this regard.
(A5-0314/2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the area of the fight against organised crime, the laundering of the products of infringements and crime in financial matters (10213/2000 - C5-0394/2000 - 2000/0815(CNS)).
The statements must be followed by practical measures for monitoring, freezing, seizing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime.
The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot continue to be in the hands of an agency specialised, subject to the control of the national governments.
On the other hand, Article 8 of the draft convention only restricted to essential interests of the reasons for rejection of assistance which could be invoked the requested state.
I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Marinho on the work she has done and I would like to say that, in fact, the efforts being made to combat organised crime must be given support and attention.
Locating, pursue, condemn the laundering of dirty money from the terrorists and arms dealers and drugs, of course!
Our task is to proceed to the follow-up, freezing, seizing and confiscation of the proceeds of organized crime.
All of these considerations are included in the amendments and, to judge by the debate in the committee, I very much hope that Parliament will approve these amendments.
In my opinion, the establishment of these initiatives is progressing in a way that can ignore the protection laid down in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
However, in reality, all this is not so easy.
Finally, Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the compromise amendment which we have reached with Mrs Roure on the activities of the lawyers.
The second measure, the second instrument, it is the harmonisation.
It is a Portuguese initiative which have already been praised several previous speakers.
And that was the subject of the joint meeting of the Council of Justice and Home Affairs and of the Ecofin Council on 17 October.
The best way to strengthen parliamentary control and judicial control of Europol is the full integration of the Europol Convention in the legal framework of the European Union.
One step in the right direction, which the European Parliament is trying to give a long time ago is the creation of a provisional unit of judicial cooperation.
This is the purpose of the guarantees, that is to say, to make progress this aspect of freedoms.
The European Parliament is the body supranational EU able to establish this relationship, and with this speech, I would propose, therefore, to support this right to support our rapporteur
Only when the institutional model and rules for the European area of justice will be clarified, it will be possible for the citizens and for the Parliament to speak out on each of the measures proposed by the Council.
For this reason, Europol is a logical step in the process to provide the citizens of a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by strengthening the fight against organised crime.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt is to be congratulated on the excellent report he has presented, in line with the decisions taken at the Tampere Council.
But given that with Eurojust, the coordination of tax and the national courts in order to fight against all forms of serious crime - and in that I agree with the approach of the rapporteur - broad concept: it is not only talks about cooperation for the purely transnational crime, also refers to cooperation for the suppression of criminal activities.
We will have the opportunity, from 1 January 2001, go in the provisional unit, but the Commission wants to have a debate on what should be the final unity of Eurojust.
Each side sincerely held its position, so I believe, without falling into rigid conflicts.
The problems encountered in the expenditure does not bother too much to the Committee on Fisheries, although gave more attention to other matters.
It is wholly unacceptable that we do not have clear objectives or we can measure the results, something that does not happen in any other institution.
Second point: in the area of the hierarchy of the option of planning of payments has arrived here to intersections unacceptable, Commissioner.
I would like to point out that played a positive role in a number of problems.
It is obvious that this work consortium does not create any ambiguity in the joint financial responsibility.
We have therefore really acted to recover these 3.4 million, and we can say that we have achieved more than 90%.
Are there any comments?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after nine months of work and long wrangling in search of a consensus, we now have on the table a draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I hope that, even if today is limited to vote in favour of this Charter, this House is going to make indubitablemente clear in the coming weeks, which asks the Council the obligation of the Charter and that it also includes the possibility to have recourse to the European Court of Justice.
This position is linked, as you know, adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Biarritz, in which they themselves adopted unanimously and without reservation, the Charter and, therefore, I can only invite you, on behalf of the Council, to follow this position, but by making them some arguments.
But, above all, it is the strength of its content that the Charter, I am sure, will take time.
For its part, the European Trade Union Confederation has managed to condemn what she considers gaps, such as the lack of reference to the right to a minimum wage, for example.
However, a number of figures, and in particular the Members of the European Parliament, have proposed to include an explicit reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Article 6 of the Treaty on Union, which refers to the Convention on Human Rights.
Our group unanimously endorses the Charter with the sole exception of the British delegation.
The Group of the European Peoples Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats calls in its entirety and unanimously that the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated as soon as possible to the Treaties, so that also has the force of law directly for the inhabitants of the European Union.
They have shown that it is possible to deal with the European affairs of a new, exemplary, and a much better than the intergovernmental conference, given its democratic and open work, with great clarity and that makes the participation of the citizens.
The right to health, social security, housing, the minimum wage are non-existent or only in the order of solidarity.
Fourthly, the Charter - and this seems to me to be particularly important - part of the principle of the indivisibility of the human rights of citizenship and of a political nature and the fundamental rights of social order.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Charter is merely the umpteenth demonstration of the capacity of the Union and of our Member States to multiply the texts vacuos, the declarations of intent.
The representative of the Commission in the Convention Torino attributed legal significance to the document.
After the time of the market, the time for the Europe of rights perhaps has finally reached, and the concept of citizenship in the European Union is a relatively new concept.
The Charter drafted, in fact, as a text which can have a binding value.
I can also see with great pride that a representative of my group in my own country, Gunnar Jansson, played an important role in the formulation of this Charter.
As I said last night - and I shall say it today - in this Union, there are many shortcomings in this respect and sometimes, with our impatience to develop judicial and police cooperation, overlook the importance of ensuring that the innocent people are not passive victims, collateral damage of a war against crime.
Madam President, the draft resolution of the European Parliament on the Charter of Fundamental Rights is based on the same ambiguity that the work of the House.
The Italian Constitution provides, for example, the limit of the good conduct; the Convention provides for the limit of the rights of others, of public order.
Mr President, today in the vote on the 12 conclude a process that began in 1984 when this Parliament approved the draft of the Treaty of the European Union, where appeared the request for a statement of rights, a process which we are continuing in 1989 with the resolution of Gucht.
The Charter is going to have effects, will have to be in the Treaty or not.
It must be welcomed and not with fear, as it seems to think, Mr Bondi.
It seems that the century which ends, with all their struggles for the emancipation of disadvantaged social classes, has been unnecessarily and has taught us nothing.
The Charter fills a gap in Community law and strengthens the protection of individuals with regard to the atrocities of the European police force, the authorities combating fraud and the authorities to safeguard competition.
I do not understand the dissent motivates because the Charter does not cover everything that I would like to see included.
Mr President, where continue was Mr Gahrton.
The third point I want to make concerns the rights of citizens of third countries.
The Council of Europe, as well as with the Court of Human Rights, with a great deal of experience in such forms of control, which we can use.
In the light of the text of the Charter that we are adopting today - and I hope that by a large majority -, it is clear that in our Charter we are going to achieve a more extensive protection and also more up-to-date of fundamental rights that would have been to accession to the European Convention for the protection of human rights.
That is why it is necessary to make more progress.
I think it is important to bear this in mind if we are to achieve the necessary support from the citizens of Europe to the Charter.
After its adoption by this Parliament, the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be my analysis guide for this report and, as far as my personal and intellectual means and resources in terms of staff to provide you allow me, I should like to make an analysis right by right, country by country of respect for the Charter in the fifteen countries of the Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission would like, in the first place, to adhere to the purposes of Mr Moscovici, and to highlight the essential contribution that the Members of the European Parliament have contributed to the debate, to the Convention, in particular the role that Mr Méndez de Vigo has played in the praesidium of the Convention for the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I refer to some of the most salient points of this debate: firstly, Mr
The Convention has chosen to include fundamental rights inspired by the various instruments of the Council of Europe, in the Treaties, in the constitutions of the Member States.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
In the current state of affairs, also corresponds to our Parliament to tell the Turkish people that at the moment there are three conditions for its accession.
As a result of this, the European Investment Bank is one of the last ports of refuge in the world of banking activities not tarnish the waves of the social debate.
That is why I have taken good note of the suggestions made by Mr Morillon in relation to the conditions for the accession of Turkey and deserve the greatest interest.
I am pleased to say that the Turkish Government has accepted this partnership as a basis for our future cooperation, so that we can hope justified to achieve the intended objective, which is to support with our policy to the forces of reform in Turkey, to give new impetus to the process of reform and to do so to move forward with a view to the desired accession to the European Union.
What is most important to me is that, after Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public opinion, a debate on the conditions for the accession of Turkey to the EU, a debate which gives support to the forces of reform in the country and promote their development.
This text is waiting for its opinion.
What is now wants to a necessary boost in the scene of future accession.
However, I strongly urge Turkey - I do not know what will be the outcome of the vote - to take this issue seriously.
The European Parliament will play its role in the promotion of relations with the political parties, the NGOs and the press, as well as to develop their sensitive and sometimes tirante relationship with the Grand National Assembly.
Mr Morillon, your report is, in my view, absolutely realistic and responsible.
On the occasion of your visit to Turkey in March last mentioned at least by its name to the problem of the Kurdish people, as has been the case today.
The notion that the Europeans are going to bring the Turcos, and I quote, "a radical change of their customs and its" mentality reveals a great naivety and a great sufficiency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing today fills me with concern.
Recommendation (A5-0325/2000) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the adoption of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (4487/1/00 - C5-0570/2000 - 2000/2233(AVC))
It has to be said, however, that in the next occasion when we are going to debate the computer power, we have to realise that a more comprehensive monitoring and, therefore, more garantizador of the individual.
Recommendation Duff/Voggenhuber report (A5-0325/2000)
We stress indicative.
The rights covered by the Charter are already part of the national constitutions and are defended by the national parliaments, close to the people and their cultures.
For example, the 19-1 article, which mentions that: "prohibit collective expulsions', does not specify that this ban can be suspended in the event of war or serious disruption of public order.
We are going to give a brief explanation of these three objections.
The right of a government to leave aside arbitrarily its constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny.
However, I repeat today, we have every reason to be proud of the conditions in which we have completed this important stage for Europe.
A society which only knows rights and duties, it becomes a selfish society.
It is our fight priority for the affirmation of fundamental rights should be implemented in political elections.
Despite the fact that the Convention method is interesting and fruitful to establish a basic text, seeking a broad compromise, no justification for removing the European Parliament, which embodies the representation of the European peoples, of the possibility of amending, to enrich the text.
This Charter must be improved, and our Parliament must propose a strategy to allow its updating and enhancement.
Therefore, the Charter should not decide and proclaimed at the Nice European Council, but in the summit should promote a European debate on it.
Fortunately, the prevailing tendency of the national governments appear to indicate the path of common sense, that is to say, the acceptance of the Charter with a purely political scope and not binding.
Created as "assembly 'by the Cologne Summit, autoproclamó' convention ', a name that unfortunately reminiscent of 1793 and terrorist implications of the French Revolution fulfilled by another Convention.
In return, the method used, proclaimed exclusions and the ambiguity surrounding the very nature of this text cast quite a harsh light on the new totalitarian efervescencias operating in the very heart of the process of European integration.
Fortunately, the European Parliament is not yet in this area rather than a consultative role, pending a full implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but that is the way to exercise it in the wrong direction, obstructing the right decisions.
On the other hand, there are discrepancies in terms of procedure.
A century ago was the case, and then to backtrack, again now.
The last thing that we want is that the single market will enable the criminals to enter the single market by the back door and without being seen.
I also support the future creation of a convention which will facilitate the fight against organised crime and money laundering, as well as the various measures proposed to achieve these aims.
In fact, it is creating a provisional unit, made up of a representative of the judges or the policemen who exert a judge in our fifteen Member States.
Mr President, in my capacity as a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee EU-Turkey, keeps an intense attention to the draft accession of Turkey.
Nor is it acceptable to the role of Turkey in Cyprus.
However, we support the criticism of the rapporteur with regard to the need for a assessment on the granting of loans from the EIB and that there are deficiencies in matters of transparency and democratic control of the Bank 's activities.
Turkey, with all its differentiation, always has been and continues to be an integral part of the European reality.
The accession of Turkey to the European Union has become more than ever in the order of the day.
Mr Morillon says that Turkey must be careful not to see the European Union as a Christian club exclusive "to exclude it.
Turkey will be a fully democratic country when learn to live with its past, just as the democratic Germany learned to live with yours and I also call on it.
As far as the authorities in Ankara have understood that the statu quo is unacceptable for Europe and for the rest of the world, will be able to make significant progress: the island can be reunited and tomorrow will provide a global regulation fair, lasting and in accordance with international law.
In truth, why do we not included in the report by the European Commission?
This is a balanced framework in which we will have to continue resolutely with our action to promote the rapprochement between the Union and Turkey.
If we address the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU - and I would ask you to hear what I say: if we deal with the Armenian issue in the context of accession to the EU - the draft which we are debating today will not come to grub up; that simple.
For the rest, it is also the reason for our insistence that assessment of the first five years of implementation of the Barcelona process, so that in Marseilles, in fact, we will be able to establish the necessary guidelines.
However, we have managed to keep the dialogue, and at times on sensitive issues: stability, terrorism, migration, human rights, for example.
In addition, the Council has made an effort, in particular since 1995, to give the Mediterranean the most important means, to the extent of the challenges of the partnership.
This is, in fact, a matter of extraordinary importance and I would like to say this in my capacity as a Central European.
Mr President, as you know, in English, states that, when the star does not appear in a role, as a representation of Hamlet without the first death knell.
We want to see a pooling of policies on issues relating to the single market and to introduce the cumulation of origin, together with the regional free trade agreements to ensure that all the partners to maintain relations of free trade between themselves and adopt the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
We have learnt with satisfaction that the Commission is prepared to give fresh impetus to the Barcelona process.
I have highlighted these issues because they are the key to relaunch the process, and this must be added the extension of the political agenda in Barcelona.
Therefore, it has to be our priority to guarantee peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we need to make every effort in the name of this cooperation and to ensure that the funds committed to be applied effectively, in accordance with the - let us say - selfish generosity of the European Union.
These are important and the specific issues that I would like to raise, and I would like to thank Mr Brok for having permitted this debate just before the Presidency and the Commission to discuss these issues.
The world is going towards globalisation is unstoppable and, in this context, it is necessary to organise itself in large blocks to act as protagonists in the scene of global competition.
It is disappointing that the Mediterranean countries have called for only just a quarter of the EUR 4.7 billion budget for the MEDA I programme, which expired in 1999.
This is a good proposal for a new impetus that the Commission has done and we are in complete agreement with the two priorities which has marked out by Mr Patten in your speeches and reiterated here this afternoon.
It is a wake-up call for the European Union to play a much more active role in the Mediterranean area historically and culturally enriched and engrandeció our European continent.
However, there is still much more serious, at the same time that in this Chamber exchanging calmly differing viewpoints sometimes are still killing more Palestinian.
Reconstruction aid to
If, however, does not provide, in December, the means to implement this regulation, we have now had a debate devoid of content.
It is a question of complicated procedures, but we must not and will not turn a blind eye, and I hope that the Member States do not do so, given the role played in this.
The media in that region have been responsible on many occasions of the tragedy that has experienced and resources are necessary entirely free and to act according to the rules which prevail in our democracies.
In addition, I am lucky because I believe that Parliament has been successful in achieving turn a situation which was originally not so good because it has had a constant pressure.
I repeat once more: it is absolutely essential to avoid unnecessary costs in unnecessary meetings.
However, we must not just in Kosovo.
It is also unfortunate that a number of programmes in the so-called reserve of action, "opførselsreserven".
In Feira, recognised the quality of potential candidates for accession to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process.
I reiterate the main priorities allocated to the CARDS programme: the strengthening of institutions in the sense of democracy and the rule of law, economic development and reconstruction; regional cooperation.
The European Union was right to respond positively to the access of the President Kostuniça to power.
On 6 November carried out an initial examination.
What initiatives will the Presidency of the Council, as requested by the European Parliament in its resolution of 16 March 2000, to play a more active role in order to ensure the complete and utter implementation of the UN peace plan?
How can we achieve this new impetus without the resolution of this conflict? know the close links that exist between the European Union and Morocco, and more particularly between France and Morocco.
I can simply say that France and Germany - here I am not talking as President of the Council - mentioned these issues in the course of a bilateral summit in Vittel, last week, and it was decided to form a working group in order to remedy the problem.
At the same time, the Union is still providing a material assistance to these two countries, the intermediary of their different programmes, especially TACIS.
The question by the honourable Member, therefore, gives the Presidency the opportunity to dispel certain confusion.
Let me add a further point: it is particularly in these two texts, to strengthen the criminal framework to fight against organised networks of smugglers.
In the report that the Turkish Council of Ministers adopted on 21 September as programme of reform, are on the part of the legislative changes several projects: included in the civil code measures to strengthen the effective equality of men and women in the areas socioeducativos; the fight against violence family; better to condemn these acts of violence through the creation of specialist judges in the area of family and, finally, to prohibit the possibility of a reduction of punishment for crime of honour.
Therefore, the Presidency does not have to give an answer on this point.
The next week, there will be a meeting of the European Conference, at my request, in France, in other words with the candidate countries, I announce that will be.
Do you believe that the model that has been followed in the case of Austria, that is, the adoption of bilateral majority decisions, it could be used in the future as an instrument for taking decisions on the fringes of the European institutions and to create a new institution or a new group, in order to be able to avoid the rule of unanimity in the Council?
Cem terms of this response were communicated to all the Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici - which says that in order to make progress on the association of Turkey, with the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the question of Cyprus?
We have to bear in mind that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than just a fisheries agreement and that, as he knows, if we do not come to this agreement, bearing in mind what this means, this could conceal a deterioration in relations between the European Union and Morocco.
That is why I have to express my scepticism about the outcome.
However, when it comes to the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions on criminal, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, it should be noted that this principle should enable the strengthening of cooperation between the Member States, but also for the protection of the rights of individuals.
The supplementary questions must be of other Members.
On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication adopted on 4 d October 2000 on the oil supply of the European Union, states that it wants to submit, at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy saving and diversification of sources of energy, which should help to strengthen energy efficiency, particularly in the buildings and transport.
In this spirit, we, at the time of the vote on the resolution on the embargo, within the framework of the Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations, on 9 November, call on the Cuban authorities to cooperate fully with the international bodies that defend human rights.
It is therefore up to NATO to take the provisions which judged necessary for not being able to occur again.
(The sitting was suspended at 18.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
When one offers money undoubtedly has the privilege to establish very clearly the political objectives, and that is what has been done by the Commissioner.
This presence can give a perspective to the overall policy that we continue.
If we see the region as a region of virtual political powers committing a mistake.
Parliament must be consulted and informed on a regular basis, and this is the second request formulated by the rapporteurs and all of us will have to be supported.
The Heads of Government have also confirmed the determination of the Union to support this process with technical and financial assistance.
It was Parliament that endorsed the Commission's proposal to establish the European Agency for Reconstruction.
As the House knows, we do not believe it necessary to make an explicit reference to this in the regulation, although the eloquence of Mr
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
The leaders agreed a framework 2000 extended and up-to-date cooperation between Asia and Europe, the work programme for the coming decade.
In my opinion, these issues are a reminder of the important role that Europe represents in Asia, not only in economic and commercial terms, but it must be said that one of the reasons for the recovery of Asia is that we have kept our word to keep our markets are open to exports from Asia over the last two years.
I believe that we have made an excellent political statement, but some problems still remain to be resolved.
We know that the Commission takes very seriously the ASEM and fully support this institution in this connection.
It is necessary to improve the existing mechanisms in the transposition of Community law, to increase legal certainty and overcome its current slow.
That is why we should be promoting the creation of new regional organisations, particularly where there is already Community presence, as is the case in the Western Pacific and the South Pacific.
This really will contribute to sustainable fisheries.
I believe that the future of fishing in international waters depends on these organisations and all the efforts of the Commission, Commissioner, there are few, and to defend the position of the United Nations, both in the Convention of 1982 and in the New York, to which reference has been made here, we must have a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing.
That is why I believe that the Commission has an extremely important role to encourage fishermen to cooperate with it and to propose a solution with which we all agree on.
In addition to this, the Commission must take charge of all kinds of tasks in connection with the negotiations that have to be implemented in the context of the regional fisheries organisations.
Mr President, I have the same problem that Baroness Nicholson, but in my case is even more serious.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions recommended by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
At times we have come to ask ourselves to what extent the cyclical crises in the market is not caused by speculation by these business structures, ensuring the control of the sector in terms of their interests.
The extra Community aid raised in the report by Mr Garot is, in my opinion, contrary to all wisdom in these years, when Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement to include Central and Eastern Europe, we must reform our agricultural policy.
We intend to introduce a system of safe and it is clear that it is based on social criteria, in my opinion, the rapporteur has done a very good job that shows that the administration when pursuing a clearly defined purpose, as is the case.
On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the companies of production, does not take part in this system, preferring the systems that already have: individual savings bank loans, compensation fund.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say in advance that, in principle, I welcome the Commission's proposal to create a fund of regulation, also in the context of the Austrian agriculture.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
I understand that you want an organisation of the market for intensive breeding exploitation and the collapse of the agricultural policy when it is linked to the land, when it is a question of an extensive production.
There is an organisation of the market and we should not commit the mistake of calling into question the existing organisation of the market, since in general terms significant the desired effect.
In the view of the Commission is fully justified that only require greater rigour to the farmers who participate in the substance of regulation, since the end of the day, they are receiving stable income to change, in that those who do not adhere do not get any compensation.
(The sitting was closed at 23.10 p.m.)
The appeal from the value added tax on represented 36% and the traditional own resources amounted to 15% of the total.
Another element of the reform corresponds fully with one of the key priorities identified by the Court is the need to attach greater importance to the measurement of the results and the action within a framework of allocation of resources which is consistent with the priorities and predetermined targets which are clearly defined and can be measured.
It is a good thing that this will be the case and I would like to thank you, Mr Karlsson, as well as the members of the Court of Auditors and their services, the support given to the reform of the Commission's report.
In this context, given its proximity, I would also like to point out that, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, we have proposed an amendment to the Treaty that will enable us to create a European Public Prosecutor in charge of prosecuting fraud against the financial interests of the Community, and I sincerely hope that the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice will not be limited to take note of the proposal or to abandon it, but that it should be discussed seriously.
The reality, as described in the annual report, it is rather disappointing.
The number of errors identified is too high in order to be able to offer this guarantee.
The amount earmarked for planning activities has fallen well short of EUR 240 million.
We assumed that the report of the Court of Auditors would be somewhat easier to use and it could provide some clear recommendations, for example, one or two clear recommendations by chapter.
In 1995, adopted a convention on the protection of the economic interests of the European Union.
The Commission and the Member States should look from this angle and use the results of the report as a tool for improving their action in the management of the finances of the European Union.
I know that this report and the role it is preparing to embark by Parliament in the context of the discharge will help to increase the vigilance in terms of Community expenditure.
And at this time, Madam President, I would like to keep quiet and hope that someone from the Council to come here.
The Court, like other years, has said, not exactly where the mistakes have been made.
Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union and the report of the Court of Auditors shows that there is a hard work in the applicant countries.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently come to an agreement with the Court of Auditors on which we could receive information from the Court of Auditors in advance with absolutely confidential nature and we also agree that will we be able to preserve in silence.
I would also like to address the Council and ask why no progress is being made with regard to Article 24 of the Financial Regulation.
It may be that a bit of common sense of the European Union should contribute to the resolution of the problem and to put George Bush in the place of history that it deserves - the dustbin!
We must not look expiatorios chivos, nor in our institutions and in our Member States.
Firstly, with regard to the procedure for presentation of the annual report to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control, I am pleased to hear the reassuring words of honourable Members in the sense that the situation this year is more successful than in previous years.
But we will have the opportunity to discuss it.
When it is important, from the point of view of taxation, mention everything that needs to be mentioned.
Ladies and gentlemen, as must have noted, the final part of the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors has suffered the consequences of the interference by a virus malhadado between your speech and this House.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, they have to do with issues fundamentally to the United Kingdom and it has to be said that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, popular or green, have defended with great vehemence and approved in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Mr President, in March of this year, we adopted the directive on funiculares intended for the transport of persons.
We are of the opinion that we must not lie on the trade in the manufacturer's obligations provided for in the legislation relating to the safety of products.
We have heard the arguments in favour of them and also in favour of repeating the arguments of the sector that has already heard in committee.
It should be enough that the seller report to the purchaser on the nature of the products and the scant information available on them.
Lastly, a question to the European Commission in relation to Article 4 with regard to European standards and the question of whether these rules must be made public.
I am pleased with the exceptions which are included to establishments of charities and non-profit organisations, and for the articles which are marketed as second-hand goods in car boot sales or by individual.
The reliability in the safety of products and after sales services are more added value for the European label in a particularly difficult and decisive moment.
When in another context call on the Commission to present a proposal on the safety of services, it is incomprehensible that we are seeking to regulate the aspects relating to services, rather than waiting for the Commission to present its proposal, we can already foresee problems that will arise for delimitation of the scope of application of the different rules and legal uncertainty will be increased in time.
I would like to say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal.
Furthermore, we have now provided for the possibility of opening up the system to third countries, in particular, to the candidate countries: the simplification of procedures in order to introduce emergency measures at Community level, so that we can act rapidly in the wake of the opinion of a regulatory committee.
This new requirement does not imply any substantial additional responsibility in the case of this type of shops.
Replacing the word "producer 'with' provider", as proposed Amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, because there is no definition of service providers in the directive.
Although the Commission is in favour of the creation of a network, and this point will have to be agreed between the Member States.
This certificate can always be used to provide evidence, but it cannot be considered as a decisive test.
Having explained in great detail the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 36 to 34 and part of Amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21 and the first part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31 and 35 and part of Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21 and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, because they are an improvement and clarification of the Commission's proposal.
Of course, Mr Crespo if it is Italian Socialist cannot be part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
With regard to the order of voting, I leave to the decision of the President, and point out that, in any case, I am against the three amendments.
The Mediterranean non-Community countries are, no doubt, particularly serious problems relating to the economic development and regional inequalities acrecientan endlessly.
With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, in the name of a harmonised European policy in the field of immigration, as well as the legal instruments to ensure fair treatment, we should create instruments for financial support for all those young people who, having completed a higher cycle of studies or university in the European States, want to return to their country of origin to start to exercise a professional activity.
I would like to highlight one factor, which is quite crucial in this matter; the lack of equality in the workplace.
Although belatedly, the Commission presented the Programme relating to the Community framework strategy on equality between men and women (2001-2005), which is markedly away from the previous and, in particular, of the fourth action programme which expires at the end of this year.
On the one hand, because they have been taken into account various proposals for improvements tabled by my group, because we insist on the need to examine the situation of women in the national job markets and the inadequate access to social security systems on the basis of statistics produced by the representative data and broken down according to gender.
My party has serious reservations about Community legislation to implement the sale of consumer products, as well as with regard to the refusal to implement the concept of mutual recognition of standards.
Now I understand Labour and the amendments offer the guarantee that these shops remain intact and be exempt from the directive.
Finally, Amendment No 15 leaves a free hand to the Commission with regard to the language regime of the Agency, which we consider very worrying.
The simplification of the decision-making procedures, the creation of bases of decentralised operations (not only in Pristina, where it has acquired the significance of the separation of Yugoslavia), the treatment of the dual structure between the Management Board and the Commission, can be positive movements in the direction of tackling the great bureaucratic inadequacy of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
We have voted against the proposal of the Commission and the report by Parliament.
For this reason, it seems justified to adapt the existing Community legislation in this area.
Furthermore, the fund offers the possibility of government aid more or less hidden in the form of cofinancing on the part of the Member States.
- (EL) Despite its serious shortcomings, the Morillon report is, without a doubt, more advanced than the Commission's proposal on the association of the European Union - Ôurquía.
We have voted against it.
Like the rapporteur, we must admit that Turkey has made progress on a number of levels and that there are positive signs.
Since 1987 our House had started the path of recognition, and the adoption of the amendment demonstrates the coherence of Parliament in this debate.
The Union must make further proposals and to consider the extension to Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
These ulterior motives are unworthy of Europe and unworthy of Turkey.
For several years, as a member of the delegation for relations with Canada, I was able to observe the operation of these regional organisations and OPANO (Organisation for fisheries in the Atlantic Northwest), involving the countries of this region, including Canada, as well as all those who use in this place traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
We will not be content until their gunboats fleet, flying the flags of the 'ring of stars, monitor the implementation of its fisheries policies.
What is important is not, therefore, to meet the desire for hegemony on the part of the Commission and weaken the position of Europe, which would be in contradiction with the proper application of the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, following difficult negotiations reached an outcome which is worth defending.
Thus, the aim of this proposal aimed at replacing the three directives on the incineration of waste is to improve the quality of the air, water, soil, the health of people, reducing emissions of polluting substances linked to the activities of incineration and co-incineration, and especially of dioxins, furans and of heavy metals.
However, I also think it is important to emphasise innovation that we are now no longer only the emissions into the atmosphere, but also of the emissions to the waters and to the land.
The proposal has been improved during its preparation.
The introduction of much more strict limits of NOx emissions for the new combined plants, such as cement kilns, is another step forward which will serve as the incentive for the reduction of emissions, despite the fact that the proposed rules do not reflect the best available techniques.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise - especially Mr Blokland, for having reached a few minutes late.
To conclude, this directive is an important contribution to reducing the harmful effects on the environment and the risks that they represent to human health.
The European Parliament credit, in the name of discrimination and the fight against exclusion and on respect for the responsibilities of each one, to give a strong impetus to the creation of a mechanism which will enable the essential principle of solidarity.
It is recorded, however, big differences between the various countries of the Union, and there is a lack of comparable detailed statistical data in order to be able to say reliable what is in force in each country, what is - and where - which works better, what the weaknesses are, and so on, and this is why, in my opinion, commissioned by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Policy, underlines the need, before legislating Community rules on the additional health insurance, for the Commission to prepare a Green Paper to collect and sistematice all these facts now dispersed and all the information on this.
Until now, this matter has been considered taboo to some extent.
We are running the risk that, due to the presence of serious risks to the public health problems and the elderly will only be able to recruit a private insurance limited, which is incompatible with social development.
The second point of view, illustrated by the original intention of the rapporteur and shared by many colleagues is to promote the regulations and codes of conduct needed to establish, between insurers, the ways of mutualización costs - guaranteeing the provision of health and good quality care - and to avoid the risk of developing discriminatory practices, as well as a selection of risks and customers.
I think it is absolutely wrong that the money will be the determining factor in first in the queue.
The new proposal from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we think it is right: firstly an inventory should be drawn up in a Green Paper and then decide whether we need a directive or a recommendation.
At the moment, in the Netherlands is producing a debate on the introduction of structural changes in the system.
This is the basis for the Commission to produce an initiative and articulate concrete test which may become guidelines for the health systems of the Member States.
For this reason, it is unlikely that the response will be a unique and absolute solution for all medical insurance.
I therefore believe that we should opt for the content of the report by Mr Rocard, on which we congratulate, which asks the Commission for the provision of a service, a Green Paper which will allow us to see the current state of insurance in the Member States and also define the future.
Both are taking place on a model of three pillars: the state, the business and the private.
With regard to the supplementary pensions, the European Union has already drawn up a series of standards through the drafting of a Green Paper, that a proposal for a directive.
Mr President, I would like to express my thanks and to congratulate Mr Rocard on his report, and I would like to congratulate Mr
This study will form the basis for a communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament to propose action.
In relation to the amendments of the Committee on Budgets, I can say with pleasure that all have been incorporated.
We have supported the characteristic features of the programme, such as the multidimensional treatment of the phenomenon, the measures on health, education, housing, consistency and complementarity with other related policies, as well as the participation of non-governmental organisations, and the people affected by social exclusion.
This means that we have to make use of the bottom-up phases of the cycle to restore a balance or surplus.
In this regard I would simply like to remind you that the last Ecofin Council has requested by the Commission which, as from next year, to be included in the assessment of the stability programmes precisely this aspect of long term of public finances relating to the ageing of the population.
One of the positive features of the programme of the Netherlands is the special attention - as I said before - to the impact of the ageing of the population in the public finances over the next few years.
For that reason, the resulting budget for the year 2000, in the German case, will provide a surplus of one and a half of the Gross Domestic Product.
If we add to this the evolution of the exchange rate of the euro with regard to the dollar, we have had a negative impact in terms of inflation.
They are also in the sense of reconcile a public pay-as-you-go system with private capitalisation systems and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of specific funds for investment that can obtain tax benefits in the long term and that they can help to address the problem of ageing.
The third principle that guides us, then, is the precautionary principle.
It should be remembered that are currently being discussed a number of regulatory proposals, which will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism, and therefore - so I hope - the confidence of consumers.
However, this relatively low prevalence is no reason to be satisfied.
Frankly, I was disappointed that in the statement made yesterday by the Prime Minister Jospin there were no recognition of the positive role played by the Community over the last few years.
There is a clear need to find explanations to the increase in the incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
The Commission's Food and Veterinary Office gives absolute priority to the controls in the Member States in relation to the measures for protection against BSE.
With regard to their security, I should like to repeat that there is already a wide range of controls in place to ensure that animal meal do not represent a threat of transmission of BSE.
Yes, but may be difficult to believe, took four years to adopt a measure that I consider it essential for the protection of public health.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to expressly demand that the Council make public, its opinion on the regulation on BSE.
In this situation, the only way to break the circle of transmission of BSE is a total ban on using animal meal in animal feed.
In this area, I would like to say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment which I hope it will be adopted.
The policies must change this state of affairs so that the actual responsibility for this crisis be penalised and that specific decisions provide a first step in order to put an end to this dramatic crisis.
We should, therefore, to review them.
The labelling of beef which has been adopted, which is a minimum labelling and which entered into force only two and a half months ago, does not allow properly track the origin of animals and have banned very late in the day specified risk material.
The public must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test to which I am referring to.
At that time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did nothing or almost nothing, as their counterparts not did nothing in connection with the consequences of Chernobyl, with regard to the AIDS epidemic, in connection with the contaminated blood, for the same reason: it does not promote panic in public opinion.
The French ban cause an enormous increase in demand, but the stocks of products are limited.
Consumers have lost confidence, and to contain this phenomenon is to extend the BSE tests to cattle and sheep.
In the context of the Commission's proposal is now much more important work to ensure that animal meal to respond to the highest safety standards.
For the rest, I fully agree - and just this once - as has been said by my colleagues Mrs Ainardi, Mrs Auroi and Mrs Grossetête.
Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, have a sufficient financial basis for carrying out a sound policy.
We must tackle it.
Madam President, Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased to hear here in this House, that, regardless of the cost, it is necessary to change the CAP.
We had condemned at the time, in this very House, with Jimmy Goldsmith.
The food must be a safe food for human beings.
I find it very exemplary that France has hastened to take this step.
However, those are not aid!
For this reason, I am surprised that in these circumstances could continue to use or processing carcasses.
It was recently published in the United Kingdom the Phillips report on BSE.
I would suggest that the European Commission is also applying the precautionary principle with regard to beef in France.
We now need to know, because we are still in the uncertainty, what are the scientific data, what are the measures to be taken.
On the other hand, I have heard all these proposals; I am not insensitive to them.
If the representatives of the Member States come and tell me that the legislation has not been applied in its entirety, perhaps we should rethink the issue, but we will not because the scientists tell us that this is necessary, but because there are gaps in the implementation of the law in the European Union.
The best way to hear us is not to invite us, in any event, Mr
The Commission considers that the clarification and the coordination of these policies readmission agreements play an important role and are in the process of negotiating the first Community readmission agreements with Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Morocco.
What proposals does the Commission in this matter on the basis of Article 31 of the Union?
(The President cut the speaker off)
The goal during this period has been reducing the public deficit in order to achieve a monetary policy which is more acomodante, lower interest rates and increased growth.
I always say that the euro will not be introduced on 1 January 2002, the euro is already in our pocket; we have with coins fraccionarias different, but we already have in the pocket.
The maximum values laid down by the directive 92/72 will not be exceeded in the city of Athens, although it should be noted that no measurements were announced in the middle of the summer.
Subject: Aid public in the audiovisual sector, a seminar of the French Presidency on the industries connected with the culture, a representative of the Directorate-General for Competition on the part of the European Commission stated that the legal obligations of investment imposed on television constitute State aid by the fact that these investments are imposed as mandatory by the legislator.
It must be respected and protected.
However, this is not clear, because the new growth is very desigualitario and can be accompanied, as we have seen in the United States since some ten years ago, persistent phenomena of insecurity, of exclusion, poverty, urban ghettización.
The governments of the Member States are not accepted this definition, which is also true is simple and too commonplace.
In the hostile environment that is created, there are many who remain in the way and that are rejected.
Mr President, this House heard very often, like a mantra, celebrating the European social model, the social market economy to be set with pride - many think - to the savage model of the United States.
(technical Fallo)
This is a huge amount.
In addition, they have to incorporate all political levels.
I agree on the need to better understand the causes of poverty, I support the preventive action against exclusion as a consequence of mergers, industrial changes, relocations, rural desertification, urban hyperconcentration, with innovative and practical measures which involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in the fight against social exclusion and the role of social and structural reforms.
This is a problem of legal nature, since, according to the wording of the Treaty, the reference to social exclusion and poverty.
In my opinion, these proposals are a pragmatic response to his question.
But agree on the strategy does not necessarily mean agree on the details.
If we have defined a clear and binding framework for the Member States, the various systems that have to meet such requirements must have a test period longer.
Renewable energies are not going to be a panacea for solving this problem, but no doubt that, in large part, can help to alleviate it and also to diversify the sources of energy and to reduce our dependence on oil, otherwise we would be bad.
I will repeat three of our demands.
The establishment of realistic targets will, of course, to increase the confidence of the citizen in the energy policy to be applied.
I believe that a vigorous policy in the field of renewable energies is a symbol for the Europe of tomorrow.
Finally, these agreements must allow the European countries to make its contribution to achieving the objectives set in Kyoto.
It is regrettable that exclude any category that can contribute to the achievement of the general objective of recovering energy from waste - whether it is a question of small-scale projects as if it is a part of the total calculation.
The shaping of the biomass of peat in its fotosíntesis and production of vegetable waste is similar to that of the other plant biomass.
I would like to inform Mr Chichester that at the expense of my people are rapidly installed windmills in the sea, a project which is going to come into operation in a very short time, so I should like to invite you to see it when it has been set in motion.
The controversy over the renunciation of nuclear energy, for example in Sweden and Germany, has revealed that if they do not exist in the horizon environmentally friendly energy alternatives which are viable at a competitive price, the debate is doomed to failure.
For this reason, the Member States must have binding targets.
Therefore, I am optimistic about the future potential of renewable energies, provided that the necessary incentives are provided.
I believe that it takes a lot of courage to constantly put renewable energy sources in the place they deserve.
A massive increase in the price of oil, of course, puts us more rudely to the problems associated with our energy dependence on fossil energy sources.
We cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 28.
However, in doing so, the Commission is well aware that the terms used do not prejudice its right of initiative and must be incompatible with the single market for electricity.
In the committee for the reconstruction of Tajikistan, where there are 25 000 widows, only one of the 26 delegates was a woman.
Despite the fact that the proportion of women has been limited, studies which show that the participation of women in the peacekeeping forces of the UN to improve relations with the local population and the general moral.
The Theorin report is in this area in very specific details and makes repeating that the Group of the European People 's Party and European Democrats asking to be extracted in the direction of an official document.
From a political point of view, I think that Amendment No 19 can be interpreted as a defeat tactics or a tactical step backwards instead of a real commitment, which is not worthy of the cause of women.
They were kept imprisoned.
Portugal, where women had no access to diplomacy to the "Revolution in April 1974, has demonstrated recently, in the case of East Timor and our ambassador in Indonesia, Ana Gomes, that the role of a woman and his sensitivity towards the problems and the suffering of a people that faced alone a battle of 25 years of freedom can be ways throughout the world and, in particular, here in the European Parliament.
To date, there are only a few Member States that have done so.
That is why it is necessary to take into account this dimension to outline the policies of the European Union in the future.
Unfortunately, it does not define the concepts or distinctions.
Please pass on to the Council our protest.
They are people with different experiences; necessary experience in the way in which it is exercised by the policy, especially in the management of conflicts.
The debate is closed.
This brings me to the second point, if we want to regulate the sector, we must look at a number of aspects.
The last few weeks I have learned that there is a great deal of interest on the part of the international trade union circles and of certain national trade union organisations.
Alegación in two, What are in agreement with a salary for housewives?
It makes life easier for many families and promotes equal opportunities.
Often, in this project have joined two or three families to put together a person.
We were meeting in the plenary of the first October part-session, while the debate was held on the situation in Yugoslavia, when we knew of the courageous reaction of the Serbian people, and immediately, as you will recall, ladies and gentlemen, we call for the lifting of international sanctions.
Europe has shown the vitality of its civilisation, within the framework of the history of the world, and their ability to creative political imagination to its future development.
It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to demonstrate to Europe that we are able to develop the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources, by means of the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
I must say that, listening to you, I am very impresioné by the way in which you have controlled such a difficult situation, and at the same time for his determination.
They manage in the forthcoming Minutes, Mr Watson.
Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to monitor the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater efficiency.
I believe that a fifth amendment is an annual report, which in particular must look at the documents have to be kept secret or that are kept secret.
This issue is ambiguous, and it is possible to enter and remain in force more restrictive rules, which is why we have tabled amendments to this point, among others.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy rejects the idea of excluding transparency, automatically and group, to the documents relating to foreign affairs and security.
If we want the rights of citizens to be truly effective, we need for these new posts for specifically prepared staff who know how to guide the people looking for information from the complicated maze of the institutions.
These are important in order to achieve an internal advertising.
I am pleased that Parliament has managed to create a broad majority in favour of greater openness.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for this excellent work.
Mr President, access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy a good reputation.
If that were to happen, it is mistaken, because it is a question of the credibility and reliability of the European Union for the citizen.
Documents many things are now and we would like to ensure that there is the widest possible access to all those different types of documents of the various ways as possible.
Mr President, the Commission's position with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the internal manual which was sent on 11 October to the employees of the Commission to report to you on how to manage the demands of public access to documents presented by the Members of the European Parliament.
This provision must be eliminated or, at least, enlarged to include the consideration of assessing the interests of the applicant.
The usual way in which cooperation is taking place in the international field with the rules of the game and uses of diplomacy, that is to say, that everything will be carried out with the curtains reductions, does not help in the modern cooperation to which the EU has developed.
It must not be confused with the role of the European Parliament or with the future interinstitutional agreements.
I believe that we have taken a step forward towards the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
However, it is not the only one, whom I thank, I would like to thank Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen of the PPE-DE Group, which has been the draftsman of the proposal under the strict application of the Hughes procedure.
Transparency must establish itself as a basic pillar of all the activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente for the completion of transparency.
The European Parliament calls, then, that the European security and defence policy to be introduced in the future in the structures of the European Commission.
When addressed Parliament, on 3 October, President Prodi referred to the institutional triangle and raised in a European system based on checks and balances, the flow of the operation of each institution contributes to the common interest.
I have to admit that the big challenge in this regulation is the precise definition of the documents.
I would like to stress that, at the time, in practice, the Commission could accept all of the amendments, such as Nos 9, 18, 21 in part, 23, 25, the 26.1, 28 (f), 35, 38, 40.1, 40.6, 41.1, 42, 43.1, 47, 49 and 52.
I would like to vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Commission, and to this end it is necessary that Members have the list of amendments that the Commission can support and the list of those who do not want to support.
Funds themselves of the credit institutions
Finally, and most controversial, the committee made a strong call for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation.
These amendments replace a number of other proposals in the report which are likely to be rejected in the vote, and then it will be replaced by these new amendments resulting from this consensus.
Mr President, in view of the excellent vote in support of this report, given the response of the Commission this morning, it is obvious - if you look all the parties on which we have voted - that, under Article 69 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, that we should defer the vote on the draft legislative resolution to be able to initiate fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council.
The reason why we would suggest that postpone the vote is that - as Mr Goebbels has pointed out - it is a very important issue.
I do not know how much it costs the roll-call vote, but it is certainly of hundreds of thousands of francs, or Belgian francs, of our budget.
I know that in France have sacrificed entire herds and I do not think that is the best way forward.
to eliminate the animal meal in the feeding of all animals, not just in the cattle and sheep, but also of the pigs, poultry and fish.
This is not acceptable.
It is with provisions, such as these and consumers will be reassured and farmers will hear the message of solidarity that we want to convey to them.
It is necessary and urgent to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
The ban on the use of animal meal in animal feed is only the first step in this direction.
We regret greatly, on the contrary, that the amendments tabled by our Group were not adopted.
I believe that it would be sensible to reduce the working hours of those who work in companies that pollute.
I should like to make on the fact that the generalisation of the exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead us to adapt to the production of such waste.
In fact, if, for example, had more pensions enough to live, there would be less poor.
The report raises an item of EUR 100 million over five years to reduce poverty.
I fully support the proposal to set in motion a process of Luxembourg (b) in the field of social exclusion, which includes guidelines and national action plans.
Indeed, the report calls for set quantitative and qualitative indicators of social exclusion.
In presenting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is complying with the request of the Council to submit "for June 2000" 'initiative for cooperation in this area.
Mr President, I have abstained for a very specific reason: this report, in my opinion, has not done, from the ecological point of view, these advances that I expected and auguraba.
I hope that such a system should be extended to all the cities of Europe.
Some of the European Parliament's proposals are not realistic and can count on my support.
We also need to be able to achieve better in the future to be more publicly known the existing best practices.
The people who have high incomes and are aware of the environment have the freedom to choose a cleaner energy within a free market, while the rest is still not able to choose.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
These three reasons are the following: firstly, because it is rife in the process of consolidating democracy and the deepening of the need to respect for human rights, particularly in relation to the indigenous populations.
Mr President, in this debate, we want to express, as has been said by the other Members who spoke before me, the solidarity and support of our institution to the Central American Parliament at a time when we are striving to maintain the priority in the field of external relations of the European Union with the countries of Latin America.
I do not have the reservations which has been able to express our colleague and dear friend, the Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with the Countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, on the issue of human rights.
Finally, in the dialogue with the centroamericanas authorities, the Commission is also reiterating the importance to be given to the process of regional integration as an instrument for consolidating the democratisation and development in the area.
If we are to hold on to power has not hesitated to overtake the obsessive debate on the "marfilidad", causing a wave of xenophobia and hatred of the other, abroad, to the original of Burkina Faso or maliense and, however, there are many who work and live in the territory of Côte d'Ivoire for many years.
The establishment of a genuine democracy in Côte d'Ivoire will not be able to do without the creation of an independent committee of inquiry of the crimes committed and without the formal commitment to respect human rights and civil peace.
Some believe that the importance of democracy is when it is a question of Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time, but I believe that there is no compromise possible to democracy and the question today for the Ivory Coast is the same as that for example in Guinea, when we know that there are people in prison and that there is not a democratic system.
I shall conclude with the following question: there are dictatorships, Mr President, simply because there are people who suffer from poverty, which do not have access to learn, who do not have access to knowledge.
It would be illogical that the European Union today require the holding of new presidential elections in which could take part, this time, all the candidates.
This is in many parts of Africa with the various religious and ethnic mixtures.
These elections must allow the representation of political parties at national level, which were excluded in the presidential election and thereby compensate, even if it is only partially, the imperfections of this first choice.
on the situation in Burma
They are carrying out a major offensive against the Shan people and against the Karen people and, according to the UN envoy has said, there is no sign of dialogue between the SPDC and the National League for Democracy.
For this reason, we reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment on the part of the Commission and of the Council in this direction.
I hope that in giving priority to this issue as a matter of urgency, this Parliament will send a clear message to the people of Burma that their plight is not forgotten and that we recognize that the situation in Burma is getting worse rather than better and we are determined to try to do something about it.
It was very slow to achieve.
In Asia, it is the danger that the economic reforms and the policies desacoplen, of economic progress and economic liberalisation without liberalisation in the political sphere and strengthening of the rule of law, even though I am of the opinion that without a constitutional state that functions, trade, subsidies and investments will have been lost in the long term.
Mr President, I agree with my predecessors on the floor with many essential points of what they have said, since much of what is happening today in Vietnam is not acceptable.
However, now saying Human Rights Watch, to which you referred, Mr Swoboda, that Vietnam has given in the last time, some steps to improve the situation with regard to human rights.
These very secret documents give us a strange look behind the scenes of the policy of the Vietnamese administration.
The Commission remains convinced, however, that can only be a lasting solution to the current situation through a dialogue between the military regime, the elected democratic opposition and representatives of the ethnic minorities.
There are also clear pressures of the Vietnamese authorities to ensure that its own press has a system of self-censorship.
The next item on the agenda the debate on the following motions for resolutions:
Also, we are demanding that the EU provide help and assistance, not only in the south-west but in all the areas that have been affected.
I would ask you all to support our motion for a resolution.
It is a matter of urgency that the European Union should not be restricted to deploy actions of extraordinary when disasters have already happened.
The Commission has taken two initiatives in this respect.
Mr President, there has been a purely linguistic error by introducing one of the amendments in the joint motion for a resolution.
The vote on the postponement means postponing the task to the Commission.
(EL Parliament adopted the resolution)
The basis of the report is the statement that a growing part of health insurance in Europe is covered by additional health insurance.
I think it is odd that we now want maniatar to the Commission for a proposal for a directive, but at the same time ask him a Green Paper on the current state of voluntary associations and the additional medical insurance.
At a time when the population is ageing dramatically, it is crucial that seek to improve the health system for people across Europe.
We could not contribute to this.
Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of a fast-track approach when it comes to implementing the results of the Basel review on the banking capital adequacy.
In these circumstances, an initiative would have the opposite effect to the expected imposing on our banking sectors without additional guarantees obligations of compensation, although exhortations from this House, the Commission does not have any means to ensure that the banks of the European Union will no longer be subject to discriminatory treatment by the American authorities.
We must be careful that, furthermore, Basel does not produce the banks causes a second burden a higher demand of their own resources.
Having made this first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that the economic operators also considered satisfactory the approach that has been given to these regulations on capital which reinforce the issues relating to the risk.
These are the first thoughts of how we could get to achieve a rapid legislative process to be controlled and efficient within the existing rules of the Treaty.
And, in fact, the time has come to admit that the institution of the European Ombudsman 'is sufficiently developed and has already given sufficient evidence of maturity in order to have a budget of its own.
The group EPP/ED supports the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the powers of the Ombudsman should be extended, and the sooner the better, especially when it comes to the Ombudsman's investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the decision in 1994.
One of the Ombudsman is obviously limited by the rules governing the secret documentary, but it is good that the citizens know that he or she, as Ombudsman, can have access to the documents that they themselves do not have.
The starting point of this report is the recommendation of the ombudsmann to the Commission, in connection with this, that makes it possible for the candidate countries access to their tests already corrected from the point of view of the selection procedure organised by the same.
We believe that the institutions of the Community should carry out its procedures for recruitment, and, in fact, all its procedures, with the maximum openness and transparency in order to prevent the suspicions of bias, injustice and administrative incompetence.
I am referring here to the amendment relating to the demand of the indisputable evidence of the development of an oral test, for example.
Our colleague, Mr Bösch, has already explained briefly to the amendments that have been made to this report.
After having formulated successive questions to the Commission on the management and organisation of the last internal opposition, I received specific and detailed answers.
This is beginning to open up the process of the government and to make it transparent.
Firstly, the tests that are made on the part of the Commission, the corrections are always anonymously.
Of course I was talking about July 2000.
VOTE
(Parliament rejected the proposal to postpone the vote)
In order to assess the directive on Propios resources of Loan Institutes must be carefully weighed up the various interests that conflict.
This was the idea of a European Police College for the Member States of the European Union and for the candidate countries.
That is the position defended by the rapporteur and that the Group of the European People 's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats shares.
The social situation in the majority of the Member States of the European Union is such that, in fact, there is a great need for cooperation between the different police forces beyond the borders of their own country.
It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far, believes that it is essential that the school should have a permanent seat.
The umpteenth interim decision but not precarious, regalito that the Council tends to do in this Parliament.
The rapporteur wishes to add the prevention of crime, the provision of services, innovation and border policing and wants to change the internal security in such a way that includes the maintenance of law and order.
Those were the ideals that proposed to us and those was the sort of state of working.
I welcome the possibility of levelling the standards of some Member States of the European Union.
Since the first thoughts on this issue that was made at the European level on the initiative of the European Parliament, the Commission undertook to the Member States to put forward an action intended to develop what we might consider a European police culture underpinned by the highest standards of ethics, respect for the rights and freedoms of the people and efficiency in the fight against crime.
It is intended that the Academy of police to develop, in particular, from an intergovernmental perspective.
For the reasons concerning the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
- (SV) I have voted against the report on provisional establishment of the European Police College.
There is no doubt many of our courts are very slow and ponderosos, and it is very difficult to make them to act quickly in these matters.
Of course, the proposed regulation is not perfect, since it is linked to the Brussels II regulation, which does not include children whose parents are separated, as well as the extramatrimoniales children.
My own mother suffered a similar kind of abduction and separation 85 years ago, and even talk about this.
For this reason, I would like to say to the House that in the action programme on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in civil matters - whose approval we hope by the end of this year, the Commission proposes to give the first and top priority to the extension of the scope of application of the Brussels II regulation and, consequently, of this regulation on the right to visit, covering without discrimination to the children of married couples and the unions.
We shall proceed to the vote.
Today, sport - and it must be said - is closely linked to other economic sectors, such as, for example, the industries of the audiovisual sector or to the promotion and sale of sports products.
What we need is an intelligent and flexible way of interpreting the current rules.
It is, strictly, an attack on democracy, much to avoid seeing things in that light.
That is why the Commission is waiting to receive an answer to your request for detailed information on the measures planned by the government of the United Kingdom.
This proposal was submitted by the Minister for the Economy in a statement made pre-presupuestaria six months before the presentation of the complete draft budget in the spring of 2001.
Once again, I think that what was said by Mr Simpson has been extremely helpful to reassure us on the likely intentions of the government of the United Kingdom.
The congestion are not just a waste of time, not only generate high costs, but for the environment are a problem, and I therefore believe that if the British Government gives real money to resolve these problems, then all will be, in particular all the citizens of Europe.
We are practically the only oil producer in the European Union and yet suffer the highest fuel prices, higher prices for diesel in comparison with any other country in Europe - in the United Kingdom pay 1,20 GBP per litre of diesel.
This point of the Agenda is closed.
The European Parliament needs to tell them that it is on their side, and I would propose, once again, to express with a minute's silence our solidarity and our feelings.
Madam President, it is to support it, because they belong to those who have asked for the inclusion of this point.
We have succeeded some significant progress.
The EU will deepen its relations with all the major groups and will also contact with the new government in the USA as soon as possible.
Prescott about the agreement that he had been produced, how is it that not only the Voynet, but also, I believe, the majority of the other European Environment Ministers - and this is my last question to the Commissioner - rejected?
It is feared that it has lost the momentum and the American negotiators to change and, in May, we have to start again.
The forests have been the major obstacle.
A part of the soil of the countries of the European Union will become sea or desert as a result of the continuing warming are being subjected to.
The level of wealth is high and the price of oil products under.
I would like to congratulate Commissioner Wallström for his efforts in The Hague and wish you success.
Of course it was better than a bad agreement, and in this case the American position was a position of discounts, which is totally unacceptable for Europe.
The climate changes have major consequences in the developing countries.
I would like to repeat it in English: Forest turns from being carbon sinks' to carbon sources.
Only this credibility will enable the European Union to chair the position and action in the COP VI 'B' in Bonn.
We are going to have to make our own assessment of what happened and prepare the documents to contact with the various parties and, of course, with the group of broad representation. "
Of course, the monitoring of the forthcoming COP 6 or the continuation of the COP 6 will be the ratification of the agreement within the Union.
Before the European Council, Pierre Moscovici and I myself will be the next Sunday a ministerial conclave that I have invited Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, as well as a meeting of the IGC, on Monday, at the time of the General Affairs Council.
The minimum number of Member States who were going to be limited to eight, and the clause of appeal to the European Council, which is now a genuine right of veto, should be replaced by a right of knowledge.
One might regret this, but I am obliged to make this observation.
The European Council will also discuss the progress of the accession negotiations, and thus of the enlargement process.
The Lisbon European Council had approved guidelines in order to promote an innovative and competitive European economy.
The protection of the consumer is a growing concern of the Europeans, for obvious reasons, which do not require greater explanation.
We must prepare for this unprecedented enlargement.
Unfortunately, the current text of the Conference is very complicated, very ambiguous and very long, with two protocols, yet, despite this scope and complexity, this is also very weak, it does not facilitate the simple answer to the simple problem we suffer a long time ago.
(Applause)
One was that the candidate Member States themselves had to adopt and apply the 'acquis communautaire'; that is the task that share with us.
We appreciate very much the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we do not want to confine ourselves to declaim it.
It is true that the text could have been better, and can be defined and perfected after Nice.
I find it unacceptable that a number of governments have categorically refused to consider the possibility of including a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
You do not even want to introduce it in the Treaty and in evidence that this document, this exercise had to be left to one side.
We will discuss with a single and thankless vote in the WTO.
In view of the dubious prospects of success, I do not think it is right to burden the Intergovernmental Conference with another extremely complex and controversial issue.
I appeal, as a matter of urgency to the French Presidency in order to make every effort to remove this rejection, because it is extremely destructive.
In terms of commercial policy, the Commission has drawn up a proposal which must be examined carefully.
Although in the previous Treaty achieved some progress in the extension of this formula, also brought the absurd form of codecision more unanimity for matters relating to the citizens, social security, the rights of the self-employed and cultural policy.
The simple approach to this issue is, in itself, clearly shows the failure of a policy of strengthening the ties of mutual trust between the countries which make up the Union.
That is the situation in which we have been locked for months in this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody renunciation of its toys.
The experience of this year, we have to say that the momentum that must be given to the process of constitutionalisation of the Union after Nice and looking to the future of Europe must not be left to the method exhausted, of the negotiation reserved between the representatives of the governments.
As Mr Prodi has just pointed out, if it is not adopted a rule on the majority, the taking of decisions obstructs irremediably.
In our debate today nothing has been said on that aspect of subsidiarity, but it is very important.
We did so, spent the extension of 1995, came the reflection group which prevailed with great success, Carlos Wensterdorp Amsterdam wine and now we are going to have Nice and we are still almost the same, Mr President: giving the institutional issues circles, without finding solutions that will enable us to release a task which is very ambitious, and it is this enlargement to 27.
Let us not add to the disappointment that will lead to the Nice Summit, if Nice, of course, it is futile, the disappointment caused to the peoples by our Parliament.
In the past, show that this objective was achieved, and, as a representative of a Member State that has benefited from a planned transition to membership, I look forward with positive attitude to the achievement of an enlarged and peaceful Europe.
However, we must understand that, if you you have the right of veto, the others.
But we also have to make a first transition for the Parliament to be elected in 2004, because at least some Member States will join before the new Parliament elected in 2004 or during your term of office until 2009.
The President of the Council has dealt with the issue of closer cooperation and has said that it is moving towards a consensus on this matter.
Mr President, at first sight, Nice is the necessary adjustments and matters are still not resolved in the light of enlargement.
If we had something of this mentality, if we were less emphasis on what is wrong in this part of the world and reach more emphasis on what goes well, we would be more fortunate that we are at the moment.
The majority decisions taken in the Council should not only apply to goods, but also to other related areas such as services, investment, intellectual property and competition, paragraph 1 of Article 133 has to be changed in this respect.
The European Parliament's right of initiative would open the way for the arbitrary nature of the political parties ended also invading this highly sensitive area.
Therefore, as I said one of you, alluding to the American optimism and the way in which the Americans talk of themselves, we must also emphasise what works and what progress is being made.
I should also say that I do not believe that there is a problem between small and large countries.
We have worked a great deal, but we are faced with this old problem, and I do not believe that a development can be started by the action of a single country, because we are facing, once again, in 12 of the 15 Member States, realities - national, political, democratic - is very important.
Finally, Mr Védrine, you have seen a very tense situation and also spoke of pessimism.
Do you take, in general measures to step up the safety of appropriate ways to ensure that it does not happen again?
In my opinion, we have to take the necessary precautions - something that we have not yet done - to ensure that the guests of this Parliament can be happy, without having to feel afraid of potential threats, and we must create the necessary technical conditions, both from the point of view of the organisation and from the point of view of safety.
Here, there hospitality, respect and hospitality.
I would like to thank you for your contribution, Mr Tajani.
The best tribute to Ernest Lluch and his memory would be to respect its message - diàleg in Catalan: can we all give this opportunity for the Basque people?
On the other hand, each one can, of course, to express its opinion.
(B5-0550/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, to the Commission, on the political situation in Afghanistan and the humanitarian aid.
When I speak of organisation, I would like to say that, given the enormous efforts undertaken by the European Union, it is logical that it is the responsibility of the same.
Secondly, you will see in the motion for a resolution for the very clear will on the part of Parliament to base the security and defence policy in two balanced pillars: civilian crisis management and, in the event of failure, the military management, because these two pillars are complementary.
- (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay which we have and also my duties, try to shorten the speech I had prepared.
These relations are transposed in meetings between the Council of the North Atlantic and COPSI and at meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European countries or allies.
Look, for example, what has happened in the Balkans, where it can be said that everyone has played its role to the full.
It is also in this period, we have kept fully informed of the United States of the progress made in progress in the name of the European security and defence policy, which is a sine qua non for the same to develop in harmony, as is the case at the moment.
We in the European Parliament was presented by the second edition of the European Unions annual report on human rights, 13 December will be organised in Paris a forum devoted to human rights.
This policy, you say, has no ambition to compete with the Atlantic Alliance, which continues to be the basis of the collective defence of its members, or create a permanent European army.
On the other hand, although I have mentioned the figure of 100 000 soldiers, that does not mean that ambicionemos to overcome the objective laid down in Helsinki, but that we have a reserve in qualifications and in different specialities, which makes it possible to ensure that would reach the 60 000 men which correspond to the objective of the Council, over and above the operational conditions of their use.
Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mentioning in a few words to the profound political sense, approved by a large part of our public opinion, of this new task, by means of which Europe is given an instrument of political influence it missing.
We are now facing the problem of ensuring that, when we talk of consolidation of liberal democracy in Europe, referring to the whole of the European continent, because this is enlargement and the process of enlargement.
We need to integrate three ramales in a coherent whole: policies of the Community, CFSP, including the ESDP, and national measures of the Member States.
Even with our cumbersome procedures of the Commission, we do not need a force of 60 000 soldiers to achieve our objectives.
Therefore, we need to set up an emergency solution of humanitarian aid.
It is true that I do not agree with the cynics who say that Europe manages a new game impracticable, it is true that the rapid reaction force will not prove versatile in many situations.
The EU should not develop a defence system with regular troops.
Finally, I would like to express my group's concern at the worsening situation in Afghanistan and call on the Commission and the Council to do what they can to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, particularly now at the entrance to the winter.
To put it simply: where, when and how it should act in the European rapid reaction force.
They enable understand the terrible assessment of these two months of "intifada": 270 deaths, mostly Palestinians, and nearly 10 000 injured, often baldados for life.
That is why its unceasing effort will serve to create an arsenal of weapons of mass disposal very bleak.
Secondly, contrary to what has been said by the previous speaker, I do not know whether it would be possible or desirable for the European Union to do more than it does to the conflict and the escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, in the transition period in the United States.
Mr President, I would like to focus my speech on the report by Mrs Lalumière, which, in my view, is well prepared and is expressed very clearly.
There is a political concept and there is not yet a Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The EU has only one problem, namely that up to now it has not managed to arouse the interest of the public by such measures, even though they are much more sustainable and effective.
Mr President, it is, of course, the budget; how it should be distributed.
I say that, in spite of the enormous amount of apparent assurances on this matter in the last few days have arisen miraculously.
We should work together and in a coordinated fashion and we should move towards better European policy on procurement in order to have a more efficient defence industry to provide greater value in return for the money.
Even those who question the usefulness of the decision, for example, to create the so-called our own European army, should make in the important political dimension of this decision and its influence in the cohesion of the European Union.
It has been very historic the first of a Minister of Defence presence in the House that we have set aside the evening so that the impression should not be too strong for our Members.
For all of them, a civil preventative crisis management is a better means that the military solutions.
Would Russia, in the long term, to participate in a political union with an undemocratic regime?
Therefore, Europe is not going to be a new alliance, as I have heard mentioned in an argument informed incomplete.
Pursuant to Rule 42(5), I have received a motion for a resolution to close this debate.
Given the scale of the task, was given to four committees and set an unprecedented procedure, with four parallel reports.
The whole of the measures proposed in the White Paper must agree to modernise and make effective all the working of the Commission.
Therefore, it would be appropriate if the reform would be the opportunity to limit its intervention only in the areas that do not involve expenditure.
The differences of opinion that arose were not only of a political nature, but still more reflect the cultural differences between the Fifteen.
The new internal audit service, under the direct responsibility of you, Mr Kinnock, Vice-President responsible for reform, will have the primary task of the analysis of the functions and the systems of internal control within the Commission.
It has been a pleasure to work together and I believe that the process of dealing with a crucial reform of the Commission, which is essential for the future of the European Union, has had a thorough and additional wealth, thanks to the participation of four.
They may have expectations of transfer to other European institutions, of committees of services in the national administrations or to work in the private sector.
In this way, our constitutional committee recalls its accession to an executive Commission strong, independent, efficient, transparent and politically responsible.
As the Committee on Budgets consider that the introduction of activity-based budgeting causes us problems because of the lack of visibility of the expenditure and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament as a budgetary authority.
This will mark, of course, the good will of this Parliament to bring forward this reform with the Commission.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for the excellent work he has done.
This is disgraceful if we take into account that the EU itself is the first supporter of the modernisation of economic life.
Mr President, in spite of the efforts of the rapporteurs to support the work of the Commission, it appears that the recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts has not yet given a global and coherent response with a view to a policy of government and not just to a better management of the institution.
That change of attitude should lead to the transparency of the administration.
From my point of view, in the world, there is not a structure that magazine a more important and fundamental: fifteen Member States and, in the future, twenty or more, an entire continent; the part of the globe currently more industrialised beats in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
The change is never easy.
In doing so, however, we in the Socialist Group believe that the current functioning of the Community public administration is quite effective.
The result is known, which has indicated the commitment and the competence of the many members of the Commission and its administration.
Many thousands of applications for projects have for more than a year, waiting for an evaluation.
The debate, as we have seen, it is not so much of principles, aims or the opportunity of reform, the procedures, pace, timetable, possible problems or unintended consequences of its implementation.
I should like to begin by informing the House that at its meeting this morning, as Mr Van Hulten said earlier, the Commission adopted a draft interinstitutional agreement for the establishment of an advisory group on basic standards in public life, as provided for in the Action 1 of the action programme of the White Paper.
Moreover, such changes it is clear that would only be possible with a modification of the Treaties.
The main objective is to achieve simplification, increase the transparency and strengthen the budgetary principles, that is to say, in particular the least derogations, fewer special arrangements incomprehensible and increasing the efficiency and effectiveness in the budgetary procedure.
It is simply very uneconomic for the Commission that according to the contracts for costs X has to be reimbursed 20%, for costs 30% and often to pool and check the proof of very small sums of money.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0337/2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of the European Union's relations with the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission in these relations (2000/2051(INI)).
The latter relate in particular to the NGOs.
Of course, that is not enough, but everything must be protected from the cartoons of the shortage of our development aid.
We are back to this now, because it is a good framework in itself.
Mr President, today I returned from Mozambique where the European Union has been responsible for a brilliant humanitarian aid after the disaster of the floods, but, once again, the reconstruction projects, to which we have already given money, are being delayed in the expectation of the signatures in Brussels.
In view of these realities, the need for greater involvement and greater efficiency in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment is inevitable.
We have now a harmonised approach to draw up the country strategy papers and indicative programmes of cooperation in all developing countries.
Furthermore, the creation of the SEM not provided a solution to the continuing disparity between 8 exorbitant administrative resources.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the reason that would have a very special interest to be here with you today in this debate on the first maritime package in the European Parliament, is that you are going to consider three important texts, which are an essential first step on a subject that recent events have placed, unfortunately, in the front page of today.
From the point of view of the presidency of the Council, this could enable us, on the other hand, to discuss an agreement with the Member States in accordance with the proposals put forward by you, and to adopt the text at first reading, with a qualified majority if necessary.
The rapid treatment and specialised result in the two Erika packages and six proposals has generated an enormous boost.
The lesson that this Parliament must retain this morning is, of course, the maritime legislation is in the world in a state of uncertainty and we have to start the process to put in order.
We must give a clear signal that the waters and European ports will not tolerate vessels that do not comply with the standards.
For the small boats, we adopted a compromise position between the limit of the 5000 tonnes, raised by the IMO, and that of the 600, raised by the Commission.
These data should be made available to European, State and port authorities, as well as the public interest.
The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a larger area, verging on the need for a Community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental contamination.
In cooperation at local level have been included the organisations for the protection of nature.
Changing the directive in the direction of greater rigour in its application, the harmonisation of legislation, particularly in relation to the selection of the vessels subject to inspection and the scope of application of the various types of inspection, it is obviously a good thing.
I would like to point out once again that there is no urgency, in which you insist.
I believe that in the case of the limit of the responsibility of the classification societies, regardless of what is decided today, it is necessary that the Council and Parliament to think again about this together.
The black box, a black list and all the others seem to us very good ideas and we are in complete agreement with them, but I would like to make a few points.
In the face of this catastrophic and lawless situation of maritime transport, Europe has accepted the challenge and, eleven months after the Erika, the European Union will be able to announce that ever procedure has worked so quickly.
It is clear to what extent the liberal philosophy is opposed, in fact, to a high level of maritime safety.
To conclude, regardless of the technical measures to be taken, one of the largest sources of uncertainty will continue to exist in reequilibre, in the area of the Channel and the North Atlantic, the exponential growth in traffic resulting from the bogged down in the North Sea ports.
I am honoured to the current President of the Council to ordering the situation in their own country.
Mr President, since the wreck of the oil tanker Erika have been submitted under political pressure a series of measures in order to improve the safety of ships in the sea.
Some Greek ships collapsed, Mr Gayssot, without storms.
Thirdly, when we talk of this kind of report, it seems to me that it is becoming clear that links the relationship between, on the one hand, the supply of oil and, on the other hand, the fact that there is still used fuel fossil fuels.
Therefore, we have the political courage to our ecological ambitions.
This means that, in this area, more than in any other, our responsibility is large, and that we must, in my view, silence any sign of love institutional.
For example, Finland is of the utmost importance that Russia to sign these agreements.
It is a question of tightening up the requirements for the construction of vessels tankers, improving the rules for port controls and greater severity of the rules for organisations of inspection and experts of vessels, which is a consequence of this.
Mr President, today we are debating the maritime safety based on three reports whose rapporteurs I sincerely congratulate her.
With regard to these three new proposals on maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs who have demonstrated in extremely short deadlines that Parliament is very determined to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, the controls, the rules of the construction and intolerable that similar accidents reoccur.
Madam President, in the recent past a number of marine accidents of significant consequences, especially those who were in the oil involved, have shaken our continent.
More than 80% of accidents are connected with human error, but there are grounds for human error, which are social order.
A parliamentary or parliamentary has used the term 'traceability'.
The directive of Control State of the Port is designed to monitor compliance with international requirements and not to introduce new rules.
Amendment No 18 introduces the port state control in relation to rest periods of seafarers, even if the implementation of the provisions relating to working hours of seafarers is fully covered by the directive 99/95.
I am pleased to note that the rapporteur has introduced in Amendment No 21 a reference to the system of evaluation of the conditions and we agree with the proposal, but it is necessary to adjust the wording in order to make it more clearly.
Amendment No 4 and part of 18 relating to the "k" are not acceptable.
I can assure you that if a shipowner will include a ship in the register, following our proposal should think twice.
The Commissioner has spoken for 18 minutes, and during that time, has mentioned dozens and dozens of articles, and has rejected the position of the Commission.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision in relation to a range of actions relating to the trans-European network of collection, the creation and dissemination of the statistics on the challenges of intra-European goods and extra-comunitarios (EDICOM) (COM (00) 0458 - C5-0401/00 - 2000/0201(COD)) (Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs)
However, by removing the motion for a resolution, I express the conviction that, in view of the Nice European Council, our Parliament would have done better heard dedicating a specific and different resolution to the very important and difficult issues of the Intergovernmental Conference, instead of treating them in the context of a single motion for a resolution which includes all the other items on the agenda of the Council.
Given that have been raised, more than 12 Members, the oral amendment is rejected) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
Report (A5-0337/2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of the relations between the European Union and the developing countries, and the impact of the reform of the Commission on these relations (2000/2051(INI))
I voted against to express my protest at the fact that the European Union does not achieve still intervene as it should be in this area.
Despite the fact that neither the proposal for an amendment to the existing directive on control of vessels, or the Watts report correspond to the real needs, certain steps in a positive way, and this is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
Therefore, we regret that the proposal of the Commission has not taken up the idea of the creation of a genuine European monitoring body, following the model of the "coast guards" in the United States.
- (EL) The precondition for the safety of ships, for the protection of life at sea and the protection of the environment is the fight against the immunity of the enjoyed by the shipowners, the adoption of strict measures for the control of the situation of the vessels and the imposition of strict penalties to shipping companies which violate safety standards; also, improve the working conditions of workers in the Merchant Navy, and give them the appropriate training, as well as ensuring constituent organic to respond to the growing needs of the vessels.
The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, just the opposite.
The sinking of the Erika, in December 1999, is at the root of the emergence of the issue of maritime safety in the Community policy agenda and was under pressure from the European Parliament and the Commission proposed the texts we have voted today, almost a year after this sinister shipwreck.
The current compensation funds have not been properly funded and this has done more than obvious in the case of the disaster of the Braer, in which the fishing industry in the Shetland Islands has not been properly compensated for their losses.
Madam President, I have already said that a few years ago I had the opportunity to navigate.
The rapporteur 's proposals relating to harmonisation at European level are totally positive.
This is an important point, which relates to the classification societies of the vessels.
It would be a great success, because the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, it is not a rigid, jerarquizada Europe, remote, but a flexible Europe, close to the people, based on respect for national democracies.
The fight ever more open for power between many Member States muddies the ability to achieve a compromise.
The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU to have efficient institutions.
In a week of the Summit, I personally have hope.
Nor am I in favour of linking automatically qualified majority voting and codecision and also believe that any initiative to extend the powers of codecision must be undertaken on a case-by-case basis.
When amending Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend qualified majority voting, which is currently in force in the Council for the trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
In this way, Parliament disregard the right of influence, silence as a tribute to the partidismos, national fidelidades and the governments and forgotten their obligations to the citizens.
I also voted against a text which calls for the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the future Treaty to be adopted in Nice.
It is a mistake to divide the Union into two groups, and that is why I cannot support the idea that a third of the Member States is going to lead.
Their new role has put an end to the neutrality of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Austria.
In this report there are many things that the Group of the British Consevadores can support, in particular the emphasis on the enlargement of the European Union.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have supported the report on the creation of a common European policy in the field of security and defence.
But it also against the peoples of the European Union, which will have to be funded, in any case, the new weapons expenditure proposed in the report and which does not even have the guarantee that the military forces would not be used a day against themselves, in the name of the 'policing'.
Just as serious is the pretence that a state which does not wish to take part in a mission will be forced to pay a financial contribution that shared the participating states in that war.
However, with military means were not achieved any solution, because it does not remove the cause of the conflict or change public opinion.
· military operations should be financed from the Community budget line, and that the Member States have to contribute funds, even if they do not wish to participate in the operations (paragraphs 49 and 50).
On the other hand, the EU would suit to invest the priorities of the Petersberg tasks and address the attention to humanitarian and civilian options.
I support this report by my colleague Maj-Britt Theorin.
But it does not mention the needs of this category to give way to the demand for a tax deducibilidad of domestic services and of a "adaptation of prices and the costs to the financial possibilities of the individual '.
In reality, it is extraordinary that in the 21 st century we have to recommend that the Member States should ensure for domestic workers the right to social security and a proper pension.
For many young people, its first contact with the labour market can be a black work.
What is more serious is when above of women from distant countries, which have taken up this type of work on the need and have no other means of earning a living lasting.
The reform of the Commission will be judged by the facts, hence the need for regular monitoring reports to be presented during the entire period of duration of the programme and the importance of the full account waited for December 2002.
In the recent past, various scandals and malfunctioning concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
In conclusion, I consider it essential to point out that, through this reform, which is essential for the future, at the same time we expect more rigorous and more transparency on the part of the Commission in their day-to-day management, but also a greater sense of responsibility for its part, in the strict framework of its powers.
The Conservatives we also support the statement contained in paragraph 7 of the report that we should ensure that democratic control and that it is allowed to operate the system of the three pillars.
(The sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
We have received the information - and I would like to add immediately that I cannot believe, it in no way - that the President of the Council and head of the French State is going to appear here tomorrow only 30 minutes to speak.
It therefore seems to me to be excluded that we can have a well-considered and reasoned approach.
Whatever we do, we vote, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr
In the course of the night work has been done in these texts and the figures relating to the distribution of votes in the Council and the distribution of seats in Parliament.
Madam President, I should like to ask emphatically that will not be removed from the agenda the report by Mr de Roo, because, as well as being very well prepared, at the last Council on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy of the French Presidency, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday of next week, it is planned to prepare a common position on this matter.
Thank you, Mr Parish.
At the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, in his capacity as chairman, feels there and smoking.
The political basis is clear: to harmonise the market in accordance with a high level of public health and the protection of consumers on the basis of the existing regulations and the development of scientific knowledge.
It is your concept and quality of life, in which the protection of health takes on a very important weight.
This rule can also apply to all drugs fun but dangerous, if no one else that the consumer can be affected.
Recently, in the United States have won trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and told about the lack of toxicity of the products.
We believe that the only possible and consistent it will put an end to the export of cigarettes banned in the European Union for health reasons.
Instead of drawing lessons from the failure recorded in Luxembourg on 9 October, we insist on a legally indefensible attitude.
I have closely examined what the Commissioner said to my colleague, Mr Hume: "There cannot be massive job losses in this sector.
They are the Parliament and the Council have to approve this proposal for a directive and, amongst other things, to examine the appropriate legal basis for this.
Mr Maaten and others - there is a danger that, if this Parliament and the Council accept the restrictive interpretation proposed by the leader of the European People's Party and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this Parliament, the Council and the Community institutions as a whole would be tying hand and foot for the legislative development of the Community institutions, which is so important for the development of Community law.
The weak point of this proposal is that it places a great deal of emphasis on the promotion of free competition.
In conclusion, since the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam in the European Parliament has powers of coordination on environmental issues and consumer protection, and collaborate closely, of course, with the Council and the Commission in this matter.
In fact, this has nothing to do with tobacco, but that the ruling of the European Court of Justice could have been dictated to ban the advertising of alcohol or the advertising of chocolate sugar, of course, it can also be harmful to health.
I simply do not understand that a majority of this Parliament will want to propose softening the rules relating to the export of what is proposed by the governments of the Member States, the governments which also represent the many industries referred to.
It is a proven fact that 80% of smokers wishes to be, but in the tobacco sector, promoting very few policies aimed at helping these people to stop smoking.
If we insist on the other countries say what levels of public health should be spreading to our exports reasonable proposals for the internal market, we will be jeopardising all the good work done by Mr Maaten.
We are in favour of a method of evidence recognised in all the countries of the EU, in a given country in a laboratory tests recognised.
Today is openly recognize the effects on health of the consumption of tobacco, and both the legislators as the public share the feeling that the time has come to adopt strict rules and regulations in this area.
Consequently, the Community rules will fit perfectly in future international agreements, thereby avoiding the risk of the obstacles to trade and strengthening at the same time, the protection of consumers and guaranteeing a high level of health protection.
It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives in its entirety in the first report by the Commission.
With regard to the laboratory tests, the amendment relating to the approval of evidence is superfluous, because another article, already provides for the movement of goods which comply with the provisions of the directive.
Madam President, this report is not complications: at the present time, the directives on summer time only five years are in force, and then have to come back to Parliament for its renewal.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the provisions on summer-time, that there are discussed, is a good proposal.
I therefore believe that this House should not take too much time on this subject, since the Member States, as well as the population, have already accepted in the regulation of summer time and it has been recognised as part of our annual rate.
In my opinion, it is appropriate that the issues relating to slots and with the application of the rules of summer time left, as laid down in the proposal, in the field of decision-making of the Member States.
It would be more justified that summer time leave the end of September, some six months of its inception.
I can accept the presentation of suitable proposals on the basis of the conclusions of the report from 2007 to which Article 5.
It is clear that cannot be accepted the interventions in the human germ line.
In fact, I believe that a committee of ethics, in which people work that it does not do this work as the main profession, can give a slightly longer term, but on the authorities to exercise a certain amount of pressure of time to make quickly to work.
These groups should be maintained in the field of application of the directive.
But I am also glad that we have managed to take a cerrojazo gene therapy.
I would like to express my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his effort to reconcile the opposing positions.
These programmes are linked to the fight against cancer, with the prevention of AIDS, the prevention of drug addiction and the promotion of health; and its interruption would mean the end of the projects and the work of the networks which were set up for this purpose.
It is very good to prepare the ground in theory, so that, in the event that it is necessary to make a second reading, be very close to the point at which decisions are taken.
In addition, we must take into account that the promotion and prevention and monitoring are going to be increasingly important and, for this reason, we would have to provide them with more budgets and give them more important.
Madam President, the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what sense developments in the European policy in the field of public health.
I understand that the Council has also given its consent.
In the European Union is currently the paradox that the abolition of internal borders for the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must live with the maintenance of 15 borders in the areas of police and judicial criminal, that the Member States are difficult to eliminate.
To conclude, the initiative is an important step forward in the creation of a European criminal judicial area, albeit partial and limited, but is a response to the real needs of a huge volume of European citizens that, until now, have been virtually helpless when they have been victims of crime outside the territory of their habitual residence.
What we have asked for this group of people?
At the same time, we must ensure a special training for professionals who will have direct contact with the victims.
The victims should not be turned into doubly penalised people, firstly because of a crime and then because of the system.
Furthermore, in this regard it is important that they should be a discreet and professional manner to the relatives, that is, to the relatives of the victims, of the facts if they wish, and that they can count on the aid necessary in order that we do not have to learn from the press.
This applies regardless of the crime has been committed.
We will never, at the level of the Member States or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that individuals must take responsibility for their actions.
In other cases, could be obtained with the information that is needed in a language of the European Union, which is not itself.
I am very pleased with the positive response from Parliament before the first text on such an important issue, so that the area of freedom, security and justice that we are constructing gradually can offer our fellow citizens support in situations that often it is difficult to bear.
Vote on request for urgent procedure
(Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
In this way, on the evening of 23 to 24 November we have agreed with the Council on the central points of a budget that although it is not brilliant is reasonable.
For this reason, the Commission proposed a revision by EUR 300 million to what was opposed tooth and nail in the Council.
But I also know from the discussions that is even more difficult to formulate a position on the part of the Council negotiable, to obtain a mandate and to ensure that the purely national egoisms lead to a pan-European decision more or less reasonable and defensible.
I hope that the work on a common recruitment Office, as stated in the German modern, that is to say a European recruitment authority, really move that we can overcome together the problems that will arise in the coming years to all the institutions - the Council and the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions - that is to say, the need for staff in the coming years.
The Council refuses to make this review - it seems that now we should have the data - and I wish to prevent: to use the flexibility instrument two years running, two consecutive years - in fact, in less than 15 months and the first of them to less than six months of the adoption of the perspective - is emptying financially the flexibility instrument because it impedes their replacement and its possible accumulation, which is scheduled to a height of 600 million.
This amount so important, which responds to the existence of very high requirements in 2001, can be financed mainly thanks to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for EUR 200 million.
Given this new element, the Council has adopted at second reading a budget increased by 2.5%.
Finally, before you to proceed to the final adoption of this budget, I would like to emphasize the efforts of the Council to respect certain basic budgetary rules, in the reserve of appropriations, the legal basis and the classification of expenditure.
And contrary to Nice, I believe that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission three - institutions are very satisfied with the result.
Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of new sick cows BSE was also necessary to act immediately in the financial sector, in particular for the protection of health, the protection of the consumer and for aid to the farmers affected by this situation.
In addition, the Council has set for the framework programme of aid for the reconstruction of the Western Balkans a multiannual amount, it is, of course, indicative, which is compatible with these financial perspectives.
With a great deal of effort, obtained a couple of millions of euros.
I would like to thank Mrs Haug.
Pensará then that 1% of the budget of the European Union is very well spent.
You said, if I have understood correctly, that we should not use the reserve, because it was a contravention of the rules.
I believe that we have seen very positive things with many others that I am not going to mention now because of the pressure of time.
Despite the fact that expenditure on agriculture, which represent almost half of the total budget, are increasing and taken into account the letter of amendment, more than 5%, the overall increase in the budget is only 3.5%.
We see the great danger that in the next few years will increase the confrontation between, MEDA projects in countries bordering on the Mediterranean and the Balkans, despite the fact that we all know that there is urgently needed the money.
Pleased to overcome the difficulties that did so closely the path towards the objective to meet the commitments made in Helsinki with the candidate countries without unravel the Union, to allow the Europe of tomorrow that continues to operate effectively.
These are real, although it does not go as far as the Presidency - which has shown, and I stress, at national level, of a great openness - I would have wished.
It has provided for a new legal base for the status of European political parties and Parliament will be granted the status of institutional plaintiff laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
These last few weeks have been achieved three important achievements.
That is the meaning of the statement adopted in Nice and the debate began to coordinate at European level in the fight against doping.
Among the threats, is, as you all know, the climate overheating.
Furthermore, in Nice, the European Union has established the permanent bodies needed to define and run a common foreign and security policy: a political and security committee, a military committee and a greater European state.
For this cooperation, for their support and also for their reception, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the French Presidency thanks.
In these areas, in fact, the conference was shocked by the intransigence of certain Member States, I am deeply disappointed not only because of the consequences in the short term, but in the spirit of deadlock, closure, incomprehension which emerges from this position.
We should pay tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt Brigadier that has been beaten in the name of a fairer presence of the candidate countries and to make less unreasonable, although it is still too high, the threshold of the qualified majority, so that has confirmed the great historic role in Belgium in the European Union.
Now we have to look carefully the text in Parliament.
I would like to point out, in passing, Mr President of the European Council, that the costs to pay the taxpayers.
And I see in it a failure not only in relation to the proclaimed ambition of the European Union to change the institutions in order to be able to properly to welcome the new Member States to improve the effectiveness of the European Union, but also a failure in connection with another important aim, which perhaps very little has been mentioned, the approach of the European Union and the citizens.
The good questions are for us that he has made the impressive human tide that, since the whole of Europe, has converged in Nice, the eve of the summit.
In the first place, the Fifteen have signed hastily and tear gas in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
(Applause)
My group is disappointed by this Treaty and concerned about the future which will entail us, so that we are opposed to it with all our strength.
Mr President, you have the floor.
Finally, I would say to Mr Hager that the instrument of closer cooperation is, in my opinion, a useful tool to allow Europe to have a dynamic and deliver the way, as I said a short while ago, I believe, Mr
Mr President, I would like to know whether the competence of the European Parliament on summertime is a new conquest of Nice.
That Desmoralizados so far by the complexity of clinical trials, laboratories may find the will expressed by both the Member States and by this House, the courage to develop the market for paediatric medicines, even if it does not have the large enough to allow the recovery of investment!
Must we renew the change of summer time, which was set during the oil crisis, in order to save energy, and that it had been extended until 2001?
It is not always the protection of the situation of the victims in a criminal process is due.
Consequently, many travellers and tourists will benefit from this European initiative.
Mr President, I would like to speak only to welcome the President of the Commission, who is here, and the Presidency of the Council that is looming, and to stress that, probably, never has expressed in this Parliament as a unanimity on the results of a summit.
The that works is that, in six months, under the leadership of the French Presidency, has ended, I believe, in spite of everything, for their work on six key chapters.
However, my greatest fear is that Britain, France and Germany can now subvert the delicate balance created between Member States of different sizes and between the institutions over several decades.
It is difficult to understand how the Nice decisions could facilitate the enlargement of the EU.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I can be very brief.
That is why I can only draw the consequence that when we vote on the Treaty of Nice, I am going to vote against.
Mr President, the most important result of Nice was, in spite of everything, which was signed a treaty, so that it is now possible to provide scope for the candidate countries.
The real winners of this conference are Aznar and Blair, Mr "no" in Europe.
So let us forget Nice, look at what comes after, and allow me to feeding my hope with the draft convention put forward by Belgium for your Presidency, because it is shown, there is clean sheet, we need to change the method, we must speed up the story: 2004 is too late, is too far, it is too dangerous.
Instead, the spirit of Nice has been to ask ourselves how we can block, how can intergubernamentalizar, how can praise one home as defender of national interests rather than work to ensure that the European Union really progress.
After Amsterdam and Nice we find a principalities Europe, a Europe of national administrations and not the Europe of the political unification.
We cannot continue to face the lack of decision-making by qualified majority in the essential issues.
It is true - going to paraphrase Mr Bayrou, which deal with this sitting this morning; at the beginning, accompanying the President of the Republic, and later, in a personal capacity, and there has been a constant hail criticisms, which, in my view, are moderate, friendly, but which, however, does not cease to be critical.
In fact, we must not forget that this is the first time since 1957, which is to be reformed, that the model is revised.
We are on constitutional systems, and the authorities could not be confused.
Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office.
But nor has been incorporated into the Treaties and there has been a reference to the Charter in Article 6 (2) of the Treaty on European Union.
Finally, there are some positive aspects: the new version of Article 7 of the Treaty, and the article on the political parties and their status; the right of this Parliament to demand to the other institutions before the Court of Justice: this is also an important factor of political control; the new formula for the European Commission, to include the so-called "Prodi lex 'in the Treaty, to strengthen the President and the new composition of the Commission: reasonable compromise which I accept and work with the time; and, as my colleague Mr Tsatsos pointed out, is the way forward in the future.
Mr President, we have already made a rigorous evaluation of what happened in Nice, but it should be remembered that the Nice Summit began with a very limited.
Let us look at things: it was not included in the work of the Treaty the Charter, not even a comment.
We want to demonstrate to the Heads of Government to do better.
In spite of the shocks of chest that the French Government has given this morning, the IGC frankly, has not completed.
Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French Presidency during this debate, because it is not present, I understand that President Chirac, Mr
Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that the Intergovernmental Conference has been outdated.
2001 budget (continuation)
However, this does not mean that it could not have done something more and better, I would like to divide the two areas.
This maxim obliges the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as must the whole administration.
With the vote which will follow this debate ends the long and complex process of approval of the budget of the European Union for 2001.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis recourse to Article 272; there have been the Financial Perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
Let me just say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have been left without footballs and this team intends to continue playing until we get the appropriate outcome.
We do not want in the resolution Colom i Naval included a proposal for revision for next year, because we want to wait for the assessment of the World Bank, but we share your criticism that this way of resolving the financial insufficiency in category 4 distorts the multi-annual nature of the major external objectives of the Union and the actual definition of the financial perspectives.
For this to be possible, we will have to set priorities.
Only in this way will give correct and properly the money that our fellow citizens available to us.
If estimate the supplementary budget, which we can expect it will be almost 8% whereas in all the other areas - whether it is the policy of training, internal policy, including research, foreign policy, the administration, pre-accession aid, in total experience only a growth rate of 1.1%.
And as the cooperation is very positive, in the next supplementary budget, in January, we shall have the opportunity to pursue it.
We also criticise the relations still not resolved between Russia and the Baltic states.
We are following with great interest the development of society and of internal politics in Russia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy for Russia represents the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
Even if President Putin ensure democratic development in his country, he is not automatically a guarantor of a stable and democratic Russia, democratic order is not yet a reality experienced in Russia.
We must not be rogue on our part, but that we must build the Europe of economic cooperation.
With regard to the Caucasus, Mr Van Orden is absolutely right.
Anyone who adheres to Russia from outside and receive isolated impressions of the country and Russian partners runs the risk of declaring selectively as the reality of the country that fits in its image of Russia.
In the political field, the common strategy for Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on politics and security and create a permanent mechanism for this.
I would like to stress the seriousness of Russia to be a political union with Belarus.
Are you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
In this regard, at the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as Parliament will know, launched a very far-reaching dialogue on energy.
I sincerely hope to visit Kaliningrad personally in the first part of next year and not only because Immanuel Kant passed their whole lives in that city.
I would like to congratulate the honourable Member once again on his excellent report on a very important issue in the next few years we shall refer - I am sure - in this Parliament.
You placed in a very difficult position.
Mr President, I would like to say that this debate is very necessary since the BSE crisis has a huge impact on feed, on the production and import of feedingstuffs.
The Council has expressed its concern in many meetings with Russia, at all levels, in particular to deter it to make excessive use of force and to avoid a possible extension of the conflict, in order to proceed to independent and effective investigations on violations of human rights, to support the OSCE assistance group in the fulfilment of its mission and, finally, to ensure that the transport of humanitarian aid.
Mr President, on a point of order, it is usual in this House that the questions that cannot be answered orally enough to meet later in writing.
(Interruption from Mr Posselt)
This directive is of 1992.
In this respect we will have to work.
These groups are obviously left on the sidelines of this new proposal.
- (FR) The presidency and several Member States have already received letters from the European Committee of sugar manufacturers concerning the Commission's proposal, which will take into account in its deliberations.
Question No 6 by (H-0886/00):
In the first place, I have to say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet replied to the question by Mr Korakas.
Now, we need to set up this authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we will have to go ahead.
More specifically, has met the representative of the presidency, in this case the French ambassador in Algeria, with Mr
We welcome the proposed provisions in this respect for the preparatory committee and decided by the General Assembly relating to the accreditation of non-governmental organisations, the preparatory process and to the special session in September 2001.
The cooperation contains a number of references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
As the Council has already stressed the honourable Member in his previous answer, the process of mutual recognition of decisions on criminal will make it possible to better protect the rights of individuals.
I would urge it a little more.
In particular, guarantees the political control and the strategic direction of a military operation of crisis management.
I should simply like to remind you that the system of the EC Treaty lays down a difference in treatment between the rates and indirect taxation, which harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market - Article 93 - and the approximation, laid down in Article 94, of the legislation which affect directly on the establishment or the operation of the common market, including those relating to direct taxation.
Let us in a few words, these three sectors.
If the model of behaviour in case of doubt all fighting against all, this could explode the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe that is based on regional cooperation.
At the end of the day, we also need the cooperation with Yugoslavia, cooperation on both sides.
Mr President, our group supports the work carried out by Mr Baltas in connection with the report on the feasibility of the negotiation of stabilisation and association agreements with the Republic of Croatia.
Mr President, over the years when I was President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I had the opportunity to support many Croats in their efforts towards freedom and prosperity which they, like other peoples of our continent, identifying with its integration into the European institutions.
On the basis of the results obtained by Croatia this year, I have to say that I hope that we will be able to reach a rapid pace.
That is, of course, our approach and the speed with which we have brought our policy towards Croatia in the last few months proved.
We have a duty to Croatia to give his government and his people all kinds of aid in the next few years and deeply thank my colleagues for their wise advice in order to ensure that we maintain this path.
It is incomprehensible in this respect that the Laskar Jihad had the opportunity to go to the Moluccas this spring with thousands of supporters to exacerbate the conflict.
In East Timor, the militias blocking the return of refugees and the people who provide the aid are besieged.
On behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I shall confine myself to three points.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen for the excellent work he has done.
It is not the only country where this is happening.
The continuing violence in the Moluccas, in Aceh Irian Jaya causes a great deal of pain to the people.
Tomorrow, we have here the ceremony of the delivery of the Sakharov Prize.
According to the most recent news of the Indonesian archipelago arrivals as a matter of urgency, and the question of whether the situation is even more serious, yes, more precarious, President Wahid and serves enemies which the rapporteur analyses.
If we want to help to Indonesia, we must now act with money and facts and not just words.
I believe that the report is extremely valuable to shed light on what has been happening.
It is clear that the difficulties in Indonesia will not be solved overnight.
Protection of the Community's financial interests
We must finally remove the obstacles to their independent activity, in particular in the recruitment of staff and its organization.
For this reason, the Commission must fulfil by means of an internal reform process your announcement that it will not tolerate the fraud and that each and every one of them is going to be prosecuted accordingly.
I believe that this must be exactly the consequence of Nice.
We would like the Member States opened negotiations in order to have a homogeneous legislation in the field of criminal law, however, we do not want to put our countries to a federal Prosecutor Community.
I would also like to know why it was delayed until yesterday, after the Danish referendum on the euro, the publication of the document from the Commission on this issue.
I have tabled an amendment to cited the names of these countries, because it is high time that this is done to shame them.
I am sure that OLAF has an interest in shaping transparent the selection of senior managers tables.
However, in the European Parliament, we should be careful not to see the beam in our own eye for being so focused on the mote in the foreign: the Commission.
We are trying to extinguish the fire and stifling the smoke.
And nobody can understand, I am not.
In order to achieve this aim fully, I would like to highlight four questions which I believe are fundamental in the work of the authority of budgetary control.
The Treaty is a problem for Parliament itself.
Commissioner, it is worrying that we have to draw the attention of the Commission explicitly on respect for the rights of the Members of this House as guardian of the Treaties.
They relate to a number of guidelines for the action that the Committee on Budgetary Control can continue to find problems in different fields, including those of recommending to the Committee on Budgets to freeze or reduce the amount of the appropriations intended for the items in question in the budget for the following year; it does not authorise transfers of appropriations which involve the increase in the appropriations concerned during a certain period until they have concluded additional internal investigations, and to ask the President of the Commission to ask the resignation of any Commissioner affected by the serious problems detected: a cesárea of the EU.
The report calls for detailed inventories of operational activities, comprehensive controls of the budget lines and the irregularities as well as an internal assessment of the results on the part of the Commission.
Commissioner, the starting point of the transmission of information to the European Parliament is the EC Treaty and not the Interinstitutional Agreement.
However, the result of this common position would be, if it is not amended, which in the end did not have a playing field with regard to America, but even within Europe.
I do not know why I should not be achieved in this case, as has been achieved for all the other directives, in the end, to reach a compromise.
It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that stormy, way to overcome some of the difficulties.
The first amendment relates to Article 4, which lays down what the competent authority for the monitoring of the offer.
Now we have a proposal that would cause difficulties, search for the most favourable court, possible disputes in a sensitive moment in a business agreement.
In the United Kingdom, the regulation of takeover bids, by means of the voluntary code of practice administered by the group responsible for takeover bids has been very good results: a good example of a pragmatic approach to a very complex issue in which legislation would be less appropriate.
But, more than that, the best thing is that we can take forward the Lisbon agenda for the creation of a competitive and dynamic European economy.
In the European Parliament, what we need to do is to regulate a minimum in the European area the major areas which cause tensions in the right of takeovers, for example, presidency to shareholders, large shareholders against small or companies against capital market.
Some of the amendments proposed by Parliament further improve the text of the Council's common position, because of this, focused attention on issues that could give rise to difficulties in the interpretation and screaming out to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
At the end of the day, it is not proven in any way that the proposed definition of fair price is better than any other, because the different definitions that are used at the moment in the Member States all work very well.
The debate is closed.
In addition, it recognises the artist a right to information in order to be aware of their rights within a period of up to three years before the practitioners of traders objects of art, what is reasonable, since it is they who must take the accounts of purchases and sales.
Consequently, this should be addressed to the Austrian legislator and not to attack the European legislator creates only positive framework conditions for artists and auction houses.
In addition, the issue we are dealing with, the need for a common position is more that only a common position will enable the European Union influence at international level in order to defend the interests of the creators at world level.
I trust in the wisdom and vision of this House.
In Germany, for example, of the 7000 artists who transferred their rights in 1998 only 274, in fact, obtained money and 40% of the "suite droit was intended to cover the costs to collect the amount.
In short, it is not necessary to harmonise in this area.
We had already rejected at first reading a similar amendment.
They have thought that the translations could continue in spite of this timetable rather tight and difficult.
However, we have reached a point at which, unfortunately, we will no longer be able to postpone the matter.
Our committee proposes that it should be a year.
This Parliament is, of course, in favour of those values and will continue to defend them.
The technology and the development of the markets, they will give rise to change in any case.
There is no legal basis for excluding competition in those cases.
A reduction in the universal services - the very essence of the sector in the postal service - up to 50 grams would seriously endanger the capacity of the national postal servants of providing a universal service at an affordable rate for all, regardless of where they live.
I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess that ran in the United Kingdom when trying to privatize the British postal service.
We have turned the safety net for users of the postal services in a hamaca which shot down by the major postal companies to continue with what they have always done.
I am very pleased that this notion of special services intended to put new technologies outside the scope of the universal service and the reserved sector of the weight limit of 50 grs proposed 150 grs.
We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, and not tolerate such a situation to develop in the first place.
For this reason, the European Commission has not proposed the total liberalisation of the postal services in the second phase.
This is something that I hope the other European countries.
In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein threw recently for the French position anti-liberal, or at least in the appeared in a newspaper owner.
In this respect, I could say something Spain has created that this fund and drew on it, and that is to talk about the random legal bases which shows the substance, the virtual criteria in terms of its composition and the discretionary guarantees of their implementation.
Tomorrow we voted, and I hope that in favour of the amendment by Mr Atkins or Mr Sterckx otherwise I shall be forced to vote against this report.
Royal Mail is in competition and distributed the letters in Malmö, Sweden.
Madam President, Commissioner, what has taught us the debate, or rather the argument raised by Commissioner Bolkestein in their quest for a liberalisation of the postal services to a lack of any assessment of the first stage and violated rules laid down by this directive, and I hope that use terms progressive and value, such as modernisation, liberalisation, monitoring of technological development, it falls into a social regression quality of a country.
The planned protection of universal services by means of a compensation fund which would enable us to use the private profits for public services cannot be permanent.
These same limits and delays have contributed to a debate in which often confuse the ends with the instruments.
Madam President, in dealing with this matter, we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
Madam President, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur Mr Ferber because, of course, has done a complicated work, difficult, where it has had to try to seek a balance between proposals, positions and points of departure and arrival completely different.
I am afraid that the effect will be that the current monopoly can further strengthen their position at the taxpayers' expense and to rejoin the standard for the new applicant.
I am also pleased to see that our Liberal friends on the continent are giving an example to the British Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
I certainly accept that the concept of liberalisation per is not at all bad and that it can be beneficial to consumers.
Justificada, since it is included in the logic of the founding treaties of the European Union, which put forward the completion of the internal market for the free movement of goods and services in an environment of competition.
The universal service is the cornerstone of Community policy in this area and what we do is designed to create the right conditions for improving it.
The special services are one of the areas of major importance that needs to be promoted innovation and modernisation.
He said that the opening up to competition of the whole of the postal market seems inevitable before the end of the decade.
I am in favour of any solid guarantees that will always protect the universal service obligations.
That is why I cannot remain silent and stay silent while the future of the sector is threatened by the failure to properly overcome the challenges that marked us all in Lisbon.
Thank you very much, Mr Simpson.
However, I would like to point out that this common organisation of the market is the main objective of the guarantee of access to the Community market for their products.
It is absolutely essential to find, in addition to the tariff preference of EUR 300, a means to allow them access to the effective quota C and evaluating the subsequent the impact of the system in these producers.
For example, we cannot fail to express our concerns about the banana production in certain ACP countries, in the small producer countries in the West Indies and in some countries of West Africa that have been traditional suppliers of the market in bananas with which we have commitments that we must not forget.
I therefore ask that this report will be supported in its entirety on the part of the Members of this House, as it was in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
While the United States first condemn the periods of historical reference, and now defending their own historical reference periods.
There are powerful interests, especially those of the Americans, who are not direct banana growers, but who have invested capital American commercial companies.
Sometimes, it seems as if the Commission, in the proposed deregulation of trade and agricultural production at international level, was even further than the Cairns Group.
It is a pity that the Commission and the Council persist in a solution which may seriously compromising this production, particularly after 2006.
The successive opinions of the WTO does not say that we will not give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers.
Thus, the transitional period should be almost fifteen years, never less than 10 and compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of the production of the outermost regions, which must include aid to bodies marketing bananas produced there.
I hope that we will listen to our arguments, because this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, although it is EUR 300, may prove to be rather pointless in the facts that the ACP producers to be will laminados the so-called "system by order of arrival."
VOTE
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
The Commission rejects the remaining amendments.
Before the vote:
(Parliament accepted the oral amendment)
Report (A5-0376/2002) by Mrs Morgan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the reform of the procedures and institutions of budgetary control (2000/2008(INI))
The majority of smokers do not know all the risks or bear all the costs of their choice.
During the 35 years of my long parliamentary life I have always adhered to this rule.
I am afraid that their hopes will be in vain.
This is our last ditch attempt to put on the labels packets and images that reflect the true cost of the consumption of tobacco.
Lehne report (A5-0368/2000)
I believe that this trial is still correct and relevant and, consequently, I have voted against the report in its entirety.
With good sense, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market persists in refusing to a maximum limit and a minimum percentage of less than 7%.
By voting against this directive, my group wishes to table a policy for warning that in Europe we deal with unnecessary rules.
If it is right to denounce the Stalin dictatorship of decades ago, how can grant a minimum of confidence to Mr Putin, executioner of the Chechen people, godfather of the various mafia, which is committed to settle any kind of opposition, civil society, trade unions and political parties, in order to strengthen his personal power?
It is true that Indonesia does not deserve this intensification of relations, because in recent years, the governments of this country does not have distinguished, or by a great democracy or by great merits; however, we must concern ourselves with the Indonesian citizens and that is why, I welcome the intensification of relations and these subsidies.
The unit should only concern itself with crimes committed by the EU employees.
The Theato report on the fight against fraud to find that the European Central Bank, no doubt to prove better the famous independence, not considered it appropriate to join in the agreement on the Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
That concludes the vote.
Or belong to a club or does not belong, and it is particularly important to recognise this principle.
Ladies and gentlemen, we do not contribute to the change of name.
The tariff only system is, however, an important element, which guarantees the balance of the Commission proposal and is an important basis for being able to achieve some progress in the Council.
The national and regional programmes promoting rural development also include support measures for the marketing of these bananas.
Europe and the United States are working in close cooperation in defence of the values we share.
We hope that this is going to talk about the future new WTO round, as well as on the consequences for this round the wide range of new bilateral trade initiatives that are being discussed in the US hemisphere.
As has rightly said, transatlantic relations have intensified enormously over the last ten years - above all, it is true, on the part of the United States, thanks to President Clinton, but I believe that history will be that these new relations has also contributed Europe, which has played a key role in its development, through the 1990 Transatlantic Declaration and by means of the new transatlantic agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
In short, it will be important to achieve a change of direction and to draw up a genuine transatlantic agenda for the year 2001.
To conclude, I will refer to the Dominican Republic, which says that it is assumed that the WTO should become an impartial referee of common rules, in which the countries could learn to act according to the rules.
Secondly, although we cannot welcome the decline of the communist sham, the collapse of the Soviet Union left a single superpower: the United States of America.
I know that the Commissioner has a good dialogue and very constructive with Parliament and with the committees that bear any relation to these issues.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
These objectives, the primary and secondary, will be the test with which they have to judge the specific proposals put forward by the Commission.
It is well known that a solution - plant in one country with opportunity to provide services throughout the Union - might enable an avalanche in those countries with lower taxation.
So, in 1992 was an agreement, then considered a minimum harmonisation, according to which the normal rate of VAT could not be less than 15% and the Member States had the power to implement or more charges is not less than 5%, in this case with established derogations.
We have asked the Commission to ensure that there are no distortions of the market and that this report on the results to the Council and to Parliament.
In short, the aim of this proposal is correct, but the method is unreasonable and if we really want to promote the e-economy in Europe, a proper signal would set a zero rate of VAT for our businesses that operate through the network and try to impose our problems to the others.
In order to be able to fulfil the requirements of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, we will have to take all kinds of measures to restrict it.
The only case in which, until now, no levy tax is that of the benefits that are carried out in the European Union from a third country.
The positive discrimination in favour of air transport must stop.
The companies in other countries, outside the Community, they do not pay taxes.
The compact discs are not so archaic and it would be necessary to impose a tax, while the programmes circulating on the Internet would fall outside the imposition of a rate.
However, the solution that is proposed is intended to be technically unworkable and to put obstacles to the promotion of transactions on the Internet in the European Union, precisely when all anticipate its expansion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the European Union are losing grit and capacity for collection.
We should be looking for ways to promote electronic commerce and not devise new forms of taxing it.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party tell us that we need the lowest possible state.
The Primarolo group has drawn up a simple rules that it is necessary to apply.
As objection, the group that I represent in this House takes the view that we should address the fact that, while the newspapers usually enjoy reduced rates of VAT, this reduction is not applicable to the newspapers by electronic means.
The imposition of kerosene can only be introduced, therefore, by means of an international consensus that will ensure the equality competitive.
I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthens one of the key arguments which I put forward in my report on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that, given that it is politically difficult to reach an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we need to look for alternative tools to achieve the same effect, including a rate of emissions.
In fact, the industry pay 100% of its infrastructure costs through charges of air traffic control and airport, which in 1998 amounted to a total of 4 billion USD; unlike other means of transport, such as rail and road, which are still heavily subsidised.
The current situation is not favourable.
In this context it must be noted, unfortunately, that the emissions of air traffic are a problem which, although in percentage terms is not too large, is increasing and, therefore, we should not ignore it.
The plan will be detrimental to the development of SMEs, both within the Union, particularly in view of the proposal to reduce the threshold of exemption to the prohibitively low level of charges EUR 40 000 per year.
If we are too greedy to address the issue that we are dealing with, we are really endangering the future of the important electronic commerce in Europe.
The point of departure for the suppliers outside the Community to provide customers within the Community must only be recorded in a place may not lead to a shift in tax revenue between the Member States.
Bearing in mind that the debate within the Council still continuing and the desire of the Commission to settle the issue of VAT and electronic commerce in the short term, I think that the best thing at the moment is not to accept formally the proposals for amendment of Parliament, but to make them a reality as possible by means of the negotiations in the Council.
For this reason, I cannot accept the proposed amendments.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for all the dossiers that have been mentioned this week.
For its part, only three months after the accident, the Commission took their responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures, which the European Parliament is fully endorsed on 30 November.
In fact, with more than fifteen directives or regulations in force, there is an urgent need to harmonise the practices and to exercise more control over the application of Community rules, in order to prevent major differences and unacceptable in the field of maritime safety that may occur within the Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for their continued commitment in the area of maritime safety.
I would like to remind you that in air safety compensation which are applied in the European area and in the US, do not amount to the same amounts which applied in other countries.
Secondly, I would say to the honourable Member that anyone could have the capacity to confiscate or freeze the funding of a specific company for compensating damage or others, it is the French courts, which could establish responsibilities beyond the planned under the objective criteria for the current international regulations on pollution by hydrocarbons.
The Commission considers that these provisions are going in the right direction towards the establishment of fair charging systems, which also incentive a more rational and efficient use of the road network.
In the wake of the criticisms received, particularly in Ireland and France, changed the measure and now the British Minister of Finance has turned different: now being presented as a rate by right of use for everyone, including the British lorry drivers.
I am committed to ensuring that the food available to consumers, whether they come from inside or outside the European Union, meet the most stringent rules.
Of course, I understand the concern of the honourable Member.
I am sorry to say to you, Commissioner, that your reply I am not interested.
The question raised by the honourable Member is important.
In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the indigenous population all-ijaw inciting violence against it and even to pay the Nigerian soldiers to shoot against the demonstrators at the naval base in Warri.
In its report adopted on 15 November, the Commission came to the conclusion that aid to the farm in accordance with the Rules of Procedure 1540/98 have not allowed to resolve the problem of the policies of South Korean prices.
I believe that the whole of intent is hugely reassuring, but the reality is that now our shipyards are closing down.
Question No 38 by (H-0868/00):
Commissioner, I understand that I do not wish to amend its decision, despite the fact that ten Member States are opposed to this tariff.
This initiative is based on a Council regulation amending the regulation which defines the EGP.
I represent some producers and that is why I have a deep concern.
We are working on this in the committee, we have not taken up this week to be Poul Nielson absent for a trip to the Balkans.
We are working on the safeguard clause, and if Mr Clegg needs arguments to talk with their beet growers, I have available to them.
I would like to thank Mr Liikanen for his very positive and brilliant response.
I shall deal with this matter with my services once we know the budgetary resources available for the next financial year.
At the moment, the efforts of my services and my personal focus on limiting the gap between the parties and the future court.
In the same way that the courts in Düsseldorf, Munich and other German cities have specialised in patent law, and there are also specialised courts in London, a Community court to meet and judged cases relating to Community patents should be very specialised.
In order to prevent this provisional situation becomes a permanent nature, on 13 July 1999, on 13 July of last year, the Commission reminded in a letter to the relevant Member States their obligation to appoint tribunals for the Community trade marks.
As you know the estimated parliamentary assembly, the presentation of a complaint is not in itself to the progress of the project.
Question No 47 by (H-0877/00):
This means that the Commission will use the legal measures available as indicated in the regulation.
The question is where should be addressed these students to understand that when still this cycle of studies and succeed in Britain have the right to obtain results.
The King could be elected by a certain time between the Finnish Members of Parliament creditable.
It could also be seen as an issue which affects competition, because it is sold can continue without taxes in the southern part of the Baltic, the route between Stockholm and Helsinki, in that it will not be possible in the route between Umeå and Vaasa.
What we must do is to correct this situation through the promotion of multilingual content, because they are an indispensable requirement for the success of European industry of content.
The problem which concerns me most is that small businesses do not always have sufficient guarantees and a commercial contrasting record to offer you the investor.
In order to complete the development of an ambitious European programme e-Contenidos there is a need to simplify and consolidate from the point of view of security considered the procedures.
For this reason, the objective of the public support measures designed to the promotion of the content industry in the EU must also be the achievement of a high level of culture and the diversification of the same.
On the other hand, the communication networks, which need the content to fill endlessly their virtual area, and that they consider obvious the subordination of content, their purchase, its use without special attention to the rules of production.
Mr President, I welcome the programme for the European digital content and I would like to highlight two points.
That is why I support the amendments calling for the adoption of specific actions in the field of new technologies.
Firstly, on the social and cultural function of digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament should emphasize the social and cultural dimension of digital content.
Assessment and management of environmental noise
In fact, I am grateful for the support that the Christian Democrats and, by the way, also part of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, have given to this particular amendment to reduce aircraft noise.
Only this year, six years later the dates mentioned above, and under strong pressure from the French government, the Commission has put forward a proposal to establish harmonised noise indicators.
This proposal is, in fact, quite moderate, if we consider that the Scandinavian countries already have more stringent standards than those proposed for the year 2012.
Orly Schiphol, Barcelona and other airports already comply with strict measures.
Another important point which we are proposing to incorporate and that it is going to be essential in the context of the problems of aircraft noise is the definition of other additional noise indicators, as well as the rapporteur has pointed out.
For a lack of common standards in the European Union, we have seen situations of glaring distortion of competition between airports and a lack of equality between the citizens of the various Member States.
That is why the amendments tabled by my colleague Mr Bernd Lange seem to me so important.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I warmly welcome this report.
That was the purpose of Amendment No 36, although I believe that the idea has still not been developed.
We should look at this aspect and then take in both these areas a combined approach, on the one hand, setting limit values for the various sources of noise emissions and, on the other hand, quality standards for emissions.
We need more time and I regret that we have not had, although in general terms, I support the framework directive.
Once the Member States have given comparable information, the Commission will consider the question of introducing Community limit values and other measures to reduce the number of people who are affected by the noise, and will be submitting a report to the Council and to Parliament.
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
These are the three criteria.
Thank you very much, Mr Alavanos, I sympathise with you, because, if you have the throat as a estropajo, I have as a bayeta, as we say in the north of the Rhine; the fact is that it seems that the flu anda hanging here.
If the problems of allowance chronic, moreover, increases the risk of contracting cancer.
What, then, should also be noted that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
Tomorrow we have the programme in another stage the ball to our colleague Mrs Paulsen, of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, who will have the opportunity to expand even more the directive we are dealing with.
The Member States and the Commission now have a better instrument to ensure the correct implementation of Community law in animal feed and, in the event that arise emergency situations in third countries, to be able to take measures without delay.
We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and these issues have until now been embryonic stage as regards the cities.
The process of planning must be applied in a fairly and innovative.
The 2000-2004 multi-annual programme for sustainable development in the urban environment is a suitable instrument for this purpose, as well as the application of Agenda 21 is an excellent means of coordination and the development of actions.
In order to achieve to change the climate threat is necessary to reduce the transport and abandoning fossil fuels in the local level.
There were many who have suggested that the budget is too small.
The intention is that the main partners in this context are the Commission and the networks of local authorities, which have the legal responsibility to develop and implement the policies of sustainable development in the urban environment.
The Court of Justice of the Communities and even the bodies of solving conflicts in the WTO consider that sometimes the precautionary principle applies in the area of the environment or in the field of public health, and even sometimes against Europeans, as demonstrated by the outstanding issue of cheese drawn up with fresh milk.
The aim must not be to limit or compensation for the damage, but that the primary objective must be to prevent damage to health or the assets of the people.
Even in 1996, the European Parliament came out in favour of a ban on the use of animal meal in the whole of the European Union, in accordance with the precautionary principle; although only.
It has never existed, and never will be, an absolute scientific certainty about the new substances or on the new products.
Finally, if we want the application of the precautionary principle to be effective and credible, it is essential to involve all the interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in the political decisions surrounding their application
And, finally, that public health and the environment must take precedence over other considerations, particularly economic.
An essential condition for the application of the precautionary principle is that the concern about the possible harmful effects will be supplied with a scientific basis.
Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American, Professor George Carlo, to whom the Food and Drugs Administration has entrusted in the last seven years a study on the impact of radiation on human health, showed that there is a risk that the use of mobile phones strengthens the emergence of brain tumours, Alzheimer's disease and injuries in the skin.
Mr President, the environment and public health are a complicated machine with a lot of functions which monitor and control in order to be able to speak and that it is not ruin.
The application of this principle must be avoided at all costs to contain the innovation and economic activity, generate timidity and industrial stagnation, become a means to deter competition.
As Parliament will be observed, the Commission's position is in line with the majority of the questions raised in your motion for a resolution.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
Its Article 2 enshrines the right to life, and every time that in Spain the terrorism kills one person, the whole of the Union is affected by what is one of its most fundamental principles.
We do not want to replace the legitimately established institutions, but also urge them to protect our rights and our freedoms without concessions to terror.
VOTE
Furthermore, recalled the remark by the Council on the classification of the budget lines relating to the early retirement of the Commission and on the administrative expenditure of the fisheries agreements.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
In other words, it is not present.
The licence obtained 23.428 resemble a few, but on the other hand, will be happy to be offered space to be able to grow.
The consequence of that abolition, which began to apply in the middle of last year was, as we had planned, a dramatic interruption in the rate of approval of projects and implementation of payments, the annual implementation of authorisations for this fund, at the end of June 2000, reduced a percentage point.
The text is a letter in white ideal for closure in the practice of the Secretary-General of the European Parliament in Luxembourg.
Before my trip, they said to me: "It is Christmas, and in Bergamo we welcome the Christmas and Santa Lucía.
In addition, we object to the over-production of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to sell them.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the García-Margallo y Marfil report on the taxation of electronic commerce.
Mr President, try to amend me before the year 2004 with some explanation of vote in favour of Malta.
However, I am somewhat solemnly: it is the best that I can accept a Europe that is, in my view, too liberal!
The existence of a deadline disincentive to the postal sector to develop and to modernise their services, while it would facilitate the planning and investment in the markets.
They will continue to exert pressure, They reinforce its position with the money earned by the distribution of shipments of more than 150 grammes.
The liberalisation of the postal services, as was proposed by the Commission, is not adequate and coherent, and so I voted in favour of the report and all the amendments that have been tabled expressing the same direction.
de Roo report (A5-0378/2000)
We also have reservations about Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, not to be convinced that they are compatible with the WTO.
The Commission proposal is unacceptable as it stands, because it represents a capitulation to the American dictatorship! is shameful capitulation of our European project and the environmental and social model that we want to build!
This contravenes the respect for the national identity as laid down in Article 6(3) of the Treaty on European Union.
It should be noted that the linguistic minorities, instead of being engulfed by globalisation of the Internet, finding a new cultural and economic openness.
Mr President, the absence of other results, the negotiations which took place in Nice will have made clear the intentions of the protagonists in the European Union.
In this respect the tone of the joint resolution is overly simplistic.
The delay in the publication of the written conclusions - which are not yet officially available at the moment, four days later - show the difficulty of drawing up a clear decisions taken in the confusion.
The only way to avoid dangerous conflicts in the future, is to maintain the traditional concept according to which Europe is based on mutual respect for national communities.
The Nice Summit ended on Sunday, with an agreement which should give rise to a draft treaty.
The resolution on Nice, voted on today, this does not reflect.
Finally, a reference to social policy, for which France had advocated in the presentation of your presidency, but which, at the end of the day, it was a helping hand full of very little, apart from the declarations of intent and of the titles of documents of content very vague and clearly insufficient to the existing problems and the huge discontent, of which the demonstration of the workers in Nice was also important expression.
In the really important issues such as taxation, taxes, social policy, asylum and immigration, everything as before.
What is striking in the debate on Nice is the impression at the end of the Treaty does not parents or son of anyone: the French Presidency desdobló apologies, instead of taking the outcome of the IGC and their reasons; the political groups which correspond to the governments of the Member States multiplied the criticism.
On the contrary, reduces the influence of the national democracies through the restriction of the right of veto and to give more power to the European Parliament.
If these consequences have been calculated in my year of birth, in 1944, at the end of the Chicago Agreement, possibly not have agreed an exemption from tax on fuel and other products of aviation.
Given that zero risk does not exist, the scientists or, at least, the politicians must apply the criterion of proportionality, to judge the uncertain risks and assume their responsibilities.
But this Parliament also fought to ensure that this reduction in the resources for innovative policies to be compensated for using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause on the budgetary perspective.
We all have a role to play in this important area, because the truly global market in which we find ourselves, the new ideas, with adequate resources, and with a realistic and firm support - will do that, in Europe, we can maintain our place at the forefront of technological development in the new industries and in communications technology, in particular.
In the previous speech has already expressed strong words against the budget, and that is that EUR 400 million is really the minimum funding, so in the second part of the exercise is to make use of the possibilities of additional funding which offers the flexibility instrument, as has already been pointed out in the report.
In my opinion, to accompany automatically, and not as the report concludes, a reduction of European added value.
As we all know, the European Union in unemployment is concentrated in the territories economically and technologically less developed, especially in the Objective 1, so that there is a need for innovative actions are not just a simple technology, but that they are inspired by an explicit willingness for economic development and employment.
When I come back to my own region, the east of England, and I find that not a single local government has used this money in this period, I doubt that we have been effective, we have to be in the future to welcome these new communities.
Mr President, my first words are for Helmut Markov to thank him and congratulate him on the constructive presentation, very competent and serious of the draft communication on the innovative actions of the ERDF for the period 2000-2006.
The energy efficiency and aspects of environmental policy have not been forgotten in these guidelines: Can you give rise to innovative actions in third issue, which concerns the regional identity and sustainable development.
However, we hope that the projects will be elected at regional level, as, moreover, has clearly understood Mr Berend in his speech.
The debate is closed.
That is why we call in this report and in the three amendments that we have added that the Commission redouble its efforts to present a conciliation appeal to the WTO.
I believe that the Commissioner must prove to the industry that is doing all it can to cope with this external threat to our industry.
Finally, of course, we hope that, from 18 December will be examined at the meeting of the group 6 of the OECD agreement 'ships'.
However, all the indications are that the final goal moves, again and again, so that we will never manage to achieve it.
As you all know, the mere handling of this procedure will need more than six months.
For the major corporations, and for their political lawyers, calling for less State only means that the state and its finances should be made available to them alone.
But to achieve this, so that the process will enable us to consolidate the shipbuilding industry, jobs and reassure the families who depend on it, are still necessary aid beyond 31 December 2000, because the situation on the market is not of equality, but of disloyalty and dumping.
The Commission encourages improving the competitiveness of the shipyards in the EU, but with regard to the massive price cuts of the Korean shipyards, the increase in productivity that can be achieved is not enough.
The Council emphasised that the support mechanism must not distort competition within the EU.
The presence of the wrecked nuclear submarine in waters of Algeciras Bay has already become, unfortunately, in a diplomatic conflict between a military nuclear power and colonial and a Member State in the second category, according to the last classification of Nice, which does not require their rights and doblega child explanations.
When, by means of the medical repeated in the country in which the owner live - that is, in the form of the British press - it was discovered that the disease was serious, instead of changing this centre is changed the description of the centre.
And, of course, we await with interest the reply of the Commission to check whether the objective was achieved.
Mr President, I too should like to my first words could be of sympathy to the family of the town councillor murdered, and with my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and the rejection of this barbarity fascist of ETA and the groups that are using.
I also believe that it would be appropriate to carry the submarine Tireless to Britain to repair, as soon as possible, as soon as the appropriate climatic conditions.
You have asked whether the Commission considers that the Directive 89/618//Euratom, on information to the people in the case of radiological emergency, and Directive 96/29/ Euratom on basic standards of safety, apply to the submarine and what measures have been taken.
In accordance with the usual procedure for complaints, we cannot make public this answer, although we can say in broad terms what he says.
One aspect of the Euratom Treaty is the transport of waste polluted between Member States, but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and waste polluted will go from one part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without any Member State of the European Union.
All they have to do is to win the trust of the people who live in the Roca.
However, we see a Member State which is public opinion in another Member State as it would be with any other country in the world, as if, in essence, there was no societatis affectio fifty years after the start of the European company, as if the European solidarity had not progressed in the slightest.
It is a fact that at a given moment, that the only submarine that operated in British waters was a German submarine.
There is being discussed, but the citizens, based on their knowledge or intuition, turning their attention to the European institutions.
The lack of expenditure on new military equipment due to the cuts in the area of defence of the British Labour Government will be in the future, without a doubt, more frequent episodes of defective military equipment that are withdrawn to carry out repairs to be essential.
The competence of the Community, even if some people want something else, does not cover the classification of ports for repair work submarines, or questions of technical safety of nuclear reactors and the requirements for a submarine may be withdrawn for repair in another place.
We need to give them even more aid, ask the Community institutions to strengthen the financial, human and material resources of the ACR.
I call on the Commission to go back to increase this aid and to appoint the UNHCR as coordinating body in all the contracts concluded with the NGOs.
Therefore, it must be able to have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move around and to have the necessary resources to fulfil its mission.
On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which was the ultimate goal set out in Tampere for the common European asylum system.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the work that has been done Mrs Ogata for the UNHCR and to wish Mr
We think it is important that we are promoting a policy of amnesty in Yugoslavia for this recovery that mentioned, but also important to us that we condemn without any doubt the reappearance of the raids and terrorist activities at the borders between Serbia, Albania and Kosovo, because it reminds worrying what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where there have been responsibilities of Western powers.
In paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of our compromise resolution talk very clear.
I appeal to the President Kostunica to clarify what has happened with people like Mr Ukshin Hoti, whose fate we have discussed here several times, and whose whereabouts we know nothing.
I support the call for KFOR to disrupt any act of violence in the Presevo Valley.
I welcome the measures it has already taken the KFOR to tackle the problem and I am calling for moderation in all the parties.
B5-0916/2000 of Mr Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the PSE Group;
This clause was agreed in the Palacio currency in March 1990, and I know because I had the privilege to be there in the act of inauguration of President Alwyn, following the referendum to put an end to the regime of General Pinochet.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on the joint motion for a resolution in favour of course vote.
It is important that the international community can exercise their right of democratic vigilance, not as interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, but as a political, cautious and preventive procedure.
The situation in the prisons and police headquarters, torture and ill-treatment, is totally unacceptable.
This treatment is exactly the same that we see in Western Europe and the protests, the Minister Zoran Sami Hikmet Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a political and social consensus on the reform of the prisons in Turkey.
It is a matter of urgency, and that is why we decided to include this item on the agenda.
It is process on 8 January next reproached he took part in a meeting of Tunisian opponents in France, which, on the other hand, he denies.
When the militants and responsible for these associations would like to meet the day of the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the police around their homes and attending this meeting, are attacked in the street clothes men of civil.
The second problem is, in fact, only a part of a package of harassment.
My group, like this Parliament, is particularly sensitive to the situation of human rights in Tunisia and the rest of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, show a little restraint, please.
The negotiations marched very well and I am pleased that these negotiations are gathering speed, which I hope will lead to the conclusion to the honourable Member referred.
A number of Members have referred to the situation of the prisoners in Turkey.
B5-0912/2000 by Mr Van Hecke on behalf of the Group of the European Peoples Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats;
We could not, in my view, Mr President, Commissioner, going back to us with regard to this attitude.
In this context, there was the seizure of power by the military, as always, only helped to make the situation worse.
This attitude fit well in the continuation of the policy of the French imperialism.
The Commission is very worried about the recent violence.
The debate on topical, urgent and of special importance is closed.
Unfair competition aid to destroy good environments for the shipbuilding industry, to the loss of (know-how and jobs and long-term monopoly situations, which does not benefit to world trade.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
For this reason, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the contribution they have made in the process of tabling amendments and technical committee because they have been extraordinarily valuable elements to achieve the motion for a resolution.
The adoption of the social agenda by the Nice European Council we are particularly pleased, and we hope that the Member States will be able to take this opportunity to encourage the development and the coordination of social security systems and care for the elderly, and promote other measures, such as, for example, lifelong learning, to guarantee their reintegration into working life.
The promotion of continuing lifelong training - something that has already been mentioned by another speaker, is another matter which I also support.
Of course, the people of more than 60 or 70 years still many things that can be done useful, but it is a mistake to their age, their income dependent on its work.
It has already, in its monthly report in July 2000, the European Central Bank issued very serious warnings in this respect.
As far as I am concerned, the Member States can tackle this problem much better themselves by means of their own legislation.
With its proposals for an active life for the elderly, society is gaining a whole generation.
We must keep the promises about pensions, but pensions must be guaranteed with the own resources of these countries, without the need to go to a common financial policy of the EU to make effective payment.
In the last 100 or 150 years we have experienced the greatest social revolution, which has doubled people's life expectancy.
That is the purpose of the mathematical extension of life, that the medical progress has allowed.
Cobraron compensation - the whole of society, hit, older workers abandoned employment, but it is not hired young workers and removed a great many jobs.
The outcome of the family and fiscal policy should be that women and men with family responsibilities should be able to decide freely if they wish to develop work or not.
My brother and I met with him there.
Other future initiatives in the field of public health aimed at the issues relating to the health and care of the elderly and the promotion of a healthy ageing.
Mr President, I have accepted Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, which says that we must change the text and insists on the concept of demographic development in relation to the demographic ageing.
It is not a question of doubling advertising operations or the promotion of the operators of each sector or of the public authorities.
Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in principle, it was also in favour of the Commission proposal.
That is why it is very important to offer compensation and that can be defined very properly through measures to promote and advertising.
I believe that in the context of the marketing and sales should be given a much more central to the continuous training within the education programmes, given that the new technologies, the management of the promotion, offer entirely new opportunities for a modern logistics.
First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Dary for his excellent report.
My next point concerns the question of exports and intervention.
We do not have to pay for certain products that do not require, nor to propaganda.
Everyone has enough food, so that if promocionamos a product, of course, do so against the use of another.
Amendment No 18 and the first part of Amendment No 24, which reduce from three to two years the frequency of the issues will be reviewed and selected products in order to improve the effectiveness of the instrument of promotion.
Jutta Haug as the rapporteur, that is to say, as a man, and Mr Ferber as the rapporteur, that is to say, as a woman.
This allows us to see how small changes with large effects can be achieved in practice.
This is temporarily our last Friday in Strasbourg, that is to say, that Strasbourg is to lose twelve days of presence of Parliament.
For the rest, I should like to wish happy Christmas and a prosperous, but, above all, wise new century, but, in particular, to those who believe that it is worth being present this Friday, in the last Parliament for the year 2000 in Strasbourg.
