The House Divided Racial of Europe
A common characteristic of the extreme right in Europe is its racism and their use of the issue of immigration as a political force.
The Lega Nord in Italy, the Vlaams Blok Holland, supporters of the National Front Le Pen in France, are examples of parties or movements trained in the common theme of aversion to immigrants and the promotion of simplistic policies to control them.
Although individuals as Jorg Haidar and Jean Marie Le Pen and come (never too soon), the issue of race will not disappear from European policy anytime soon.
The population increasingly old at home and open borders more than ever, involve racial fragmentation in European countries.
The main parties in centre left and centre right have faced prospectus burying its head in the land, harbouring pious hopes that the problem disappear.
It will do so, as clearly shows racial history of America.
The race relations in the US have been at the centre of the political debate for decades, and still are, to the extent that racial cracks are as important as income, if not more, as determinants of political preferences and attitudes.
The first step to face racial policy is to understand the origin and the consequences of racial animosity, even if it means develar unpleasant truths.
That is precisely what a large number of research in economy, sociology, psychology and political science has done to America.
This research shows that the people of different race much less confidence in others; whites are less willing to support the expenditure well-being because it considers that favours minorities; the communities most fragmented racially less efficient governments, corruption and more patronage, more crime and less productive public goods for every dollar of taxes.
This does not mean that the answer is to remove the heterogeneity and create uniform racially communities, but we recognise the reality of such issues to start building strong public policies for the race relations.
Of course, the Americans are not in agreement about how to do this.
Some encourage affirmative action programs that give priority to minorities for the allocation of work, admission to school and the granting of public contracts.
These policies are regarded as a way to offer repair by past injustices and, more importantly, that figures for model (role models and overcome the residual discrimination and perhaps involuntary.
Others oppose affirmative action and argue that a blind policy races, together with the policies of the free market and profamiliares values, is all that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep families together black.
The latter is crucial for any policy, because one of the most important causes of poverty in America is the spread of homes of single parents (understand single mothers) in the black community.
Whatever the right response is the point that determine what to do about races is a dominant theme in American politics.
Of course, minorities have made progress on the path towards greater integration and economic success.
In the 1950 s black could not sit in the lead section of buses, today two of the most important people in the US foreign policy are black.
Without doubt, American politicians right-wing still using "racial letter" as a tool tactics.
Consider Patrick Buchanan, exasistente Nixon and Reagan became independent presidential candidate in the last elections.
He published a book which took acceptance recently, entitled 'The Death of' West: How Dying Immigrant Populations and Invasion Imperil Our Country and Civilization "(the death of the West: how moribund stocks and the invasion of immigrants endanger our country and civilisation).
But for every book another ten offered a serious analysis of racial issues in America.
The analysis of policies and debates about the race relations are very far behind in Europe.
In these matters are little open, in terms of immigration quotas and border restrictions, not in terms of social problems and opportunities created by a Europe which is increasingly mixed racially.
Of course, it is necessary to have a clear policy on immigration to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.
But that cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico are not the end of the US policy towards domestic racial problems!
Europe is rich and old quickly; the well-off Europeans, generous welfare programmes, are not prepared to accept "dirty jobs" in, say, agriculture or fur industry.
This makes it unavoidable an increase in immigration.
The Europeans, however, are ready to criticise America by any failure in its policy for minorities and for any demonstration of racism across the Atlantic.
Reading the European press one often perceived a complex of superiority towards the US in terms of racial issues: they, the Americans have problems with racism; we are immune, except for the unchecked skinheads and neonacistas people in the style.
What has happened in recent weeks, from Paris until Amsterdam, shows that racial problem in Europe is much more profound and, as in the US, originates in the sad truth that breeds relations are inherently difficult and trust and cooperative behaviour not transiting through racial lines.
If the main parties in Europe do not invest more seriously in the understanding of racial tensions in Europe and the 'race' as one of its main priorities, individuals as Le Pen certainly try to fill the gap with its message of hatred.
Against the French exceptions
The attention of Europe today is focused, rightly, enlargement and the constitution that the members of the EU are constructed.
But the outcome of several Gallic brushes with the European Commission will be no less important to determine the fate of the new and enlarged Europe.
France has decided to ignore, unilaterally, the growth and stability pact, incur a predicted deficit quite above the limit of 3% of GDP.
The French like to proclaim the rational rigour of his thoughts, but on deficits, Descartes gives obfuscation.
France was among the main critics of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish Government cut his budget surplus, which was then 4% of GDP, barely 0.5%.
Other countries have violated the Stability Pact, but France is the first to with an open attitude of presumptuous challenge.
Nothing should sorpender anyone.
France is simply applying the rules of the EU its innate habit of considering their own culture as an exceptional.
For example, France consistently bans to the reforms of the EU's common agricultural policy.
As know even children, the CAP is a beautiful and quite unwarranted gift for European farmers rich (paricularmente the French) expense of the beleaguered farmers in developing countries and consumers in the EU.
France is also trying to return to the old policies to rescue, with taxpayers money, private companies non-profit collapse.
The Commissioner for Competition Policies of the EU, Mario Monti, cannot miss this battle: it needs the support of those who believe in the markets and equal treatment for all.
Here, the case is simple.
The French Government thinks rescue Alstom, a company which developed a series of high-tech products, including the TGV, fast train French, but that recently shaken.
The French Government maintains that never backward in its plan to rescue Alstom, a plan with all the motivations dirigistes known: maintaining employment, to protect investment, etc.
Moreover, as Alstom is a high technology company, the French government resorts to the pretext of research and development, stating that are good for growth.
Rescuing Alstom through the nationalisation of the company is obviously wrong.
The company is composed of various parties, some profitable, some bankrupt: it is obvious divide it.
The lucrative components, such as the TGV, find buyers easily; not productive sites should be closed.
The money from the French taxpayers would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers in subsidies to keep non-profit-making plant.
It is important that the European Commission does not allow France to apply special rules in competition policy, as seems to be making budget deficits.
The Commission must prevent public assistance to private companies in France, as subsidies of this kind in any other EU Member State.
The Commission has already had some successes in this area, which highlights the have forced the German Government to cancel government guarantees for the public banks.
Alstom in particular, and France in general, must not be the exception and keep the same standards.
If the Commission does not act, the EU appear even more the park entertainment of the French public servants.
France has always taken a leading role in the foreign policy of the EU, and the foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, increasingly seems and acts as the foreign minister of Europe.
At the same time, France violates essential rules of the common economic policy and public aid to private companies.
Does the Commission lose credibility to finish resembling a small Parisian arrondissement?
A defeat in the Alstom case would have serious consequences in Europe (and not only in terms of competition policy).
The war for oil
For decades, through democrats and Republican administrations, America has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining world oil prices as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
Despite appearances, none of these objectives has changed under the Bush administration.
Many observers believe that Bush has set a new direction because the invasion of Iraq apparently goes against these objectives.
A significant increase in the Iraqi oil production will probably increase dependence on the US oil, in relation to other energy sources, because the world oil prices perhaps fall in response to the increase in supply.
This in turn would mean an increase in the dependence of the US towards imported oil, particularly in the Middle East.
However, the irony is that the US exercising greater control over the Iraqi oil sector under the 'oil for food programme "of the UN, in force before the war - that this organisation, not Saddam Hussein, identified the level of oil sales to the Iraqi foreign), which will under a democratic Iraq in the future.
If the Bush administration had been seeking sources of oil stable, safe, diversified and cheap, simply could have lifted embargos against Libya, Iran, Iraq and Sudan, to allow the oil conversation.
But the interests of the United States in Iraqi oil was not driven by the economy or energy policy.
The Bush administration acknowledged that first, the Iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical resource.
Anyone monitor Iraqi oil will control of Iraq.
The power of Saddam was control over the second large reserves of oil in the world.
I had understood perfectly what oil meant for their power.
Given the possibility of the invasion and defeat, Saddam threatened with flames oil deposits of the country.
Much of the destruction and the plundering of oil facilities that were then reflects that everyone understands that oil control means Iraq.
When US was planning its invasion, ensure oil deposits became a critical priority.
The goal was not increase supply or reduce prices for Americans, but deprive Saddam of its power and, in the long term, to establish a new and solid Iraqi government.
The future of Iraq is directly dependent on the fate of the oil production in the country.
However, the whims of oil business, especially so unstable conditions, cannot see clearly how the Bush administration achieve its goals in Iraq in the near future.
The logic is simple.
The US must use oil revenues for robbing American taxpayers the burden of financing the change of regime in Iraq.
All the reconstruction projects depend long-term of Iraq to export large quantities of oil.
If Iraq does not surrender oil, President Bush cannot fulfil its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and the world community.
Before the invasion, the ability of Iraqi oil production ranged three million barrels a day.
Iraq will not be able to recover this level during the time needed to establish a new government.
Any increase in production requires the development of oil deposits, which entails great investments, a legal and representative government, and political stability.
Even the Bush administration hoped that these conditions are met soon.
Indeed, political stability is the main condition for increasing production capacity.
The historical evidence of Iran, Kuwait, Russia, and even the same Iraq, indicate that we need around three years since the restoration of political stability to increase the ability to significantly and maintain a high level.
Iraq needs several years to write a new constitution, a legitimate and democratic government, negotiate the distribution of oil revenues between their regions, implementing laws of investment and the economy attractive to foreigners.
It also needs time to negotiate with the international oil companies and with its neighbouring countries, to implement technical studies and feasibility, and to rebuild, rehabilitate and explore their oil deposits.
Thus, even a timetable for three years seems optimistic, because it assumes that, during that period, the occupation cease, Iraqis establish their own democratic government and achieve political stability.
There is no need to say that the situation can develop differently.
The tensions could continue for years.
Furthermore, nobody should be surprised if oil production stopped completely, even under a democratic government.
The history suggests that strikes and other similar events that may interrupt the oil production are a greater threat in democratic countries that those who are not.
If Iraq does not rapidly increase their production capacity in the near future, this will be an obstacle to foreign policy and energy of the US.
How financed the long-term reconstruction of Iraq?
Who will pay to maintain a fragile democracy Iraqi?
Can the US sustain its occupation if they are not able to food, health care and other basic services to the Iraqi people?
These are difficult questions, and essentially will not answer until a stable and democratic regime in Iraq can control and ensure a continuous flow of oil exports.
When the murderers care human rights
If it were not so sad, would certainly joke of the millennium: Libya has been elected to chair the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
When Calígula appointed senator horse, the animal was blood in the hooves.
Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the Presidency rotates every year in a region of the world to another.
This year was the turn of Africa to nominate the president, and became Libya.
Only United States and Canada voted against.
For its eternal shame, the European countries abstained.
The that this decision in a sensitive moment in the organization is indicative of the moral bankruptcy of the UN.
President Bush has challenged the UN to show seriously in its own decisions on Iraq; otherwise could have the same end ignominious that the League of Nations, which was powerless in the 1930 when faced aggressive policies of Nazi Germany and the Fascist Italy.
Choosing Libya to chair the UN agency responsible for human rights hardly helps to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of the global authority.
Remember: Libya is a totalitarian tyrannies; its leader, Moammar Quadafi, combines erratic behaviour with extremist policies, and supports dictators throughout the world.
Encabeza one of the most repressive regimes, where there is not even simulations of elections and where dissent is crushed immediately.
Under his government, Libya has supported terrorist organisations in the world (from the IRA to various Palestinian extremist groups).
It is under the UN sanctions for his role in derribamiento a flight from Bread Am Lockerbie, Scotland, ten years ago.
In the last decade, the position of the UN as a symbol of the ideals of a peaceful world has been eroded.
It was totally unable to stop the war in the Balkans, and at least a case (Srebrenica), a Dutch UN peacekeeping force was as a mere spectator of the worst massacre in Europe after 1945, when the Bosnian Serbs murdered around 6,000 - defenceless Muslim men.
A Dutch investigative committee later admitted that the Dutch battalion of the UN was, in fact, complicit in this war crime.
In Rwanda, when the genocide began, the UN official responsible for peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the country of the forces of the organisation, left the field open for the bloodiest genocidal massacre since the Second World War.
The name of this official is Kofi Annan.
It is a record depressing and pathetic that the UN is trying (probably in vain) redeem presented in the crisis in Iraq as the voice of reason and international legitimacy.
But at a time when the UN inspections in Iraq seem like sending the Salvation Army to eliminate a gang of gangsters, raising Libya to the presidency of the Commission on Human Rights could happen in history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose lives began with so many hopes.
The organisations sulen not dying, and certainly much raison d'etat to ensure that the UN continue, albeit limping along.
But just a shadow of what should and could be.
Today, the hypocrisy is the mark of the UN.
Autoritarios upon
Last Thursday, the judges of the Court in Jakarta Central, Indonesia I sentenced to one year prison.
As editor-in-chief of the Tempo Weekly Newsmagazine, I am guilty, under the court, slander a so-called corporate magnate Tomy Winata suggest possible participation in a fire in the textile market in South-East Asia in Jakarta and promote disturbances spread untruths.
Will my case, and other similar, promise the end of another democratic experiment of short duration in Indonesia?
The "disturbances" that I supposedly fomenté occurred in March of last year, when almost 200 crooks, who said Winata followers, attacked the offices of Tempo, threatened to burn the building, plagued the personal and wounded reporter.
To try to resolve the situation peacefully, persuaded me to negotiate in the central station police in Jakarta, but discovered, to my horror, which was in the hands of the leaders of peat.
I were hit and kicked me while the police down their eyes.
Fortunately, many journalists came to rescue the grabadoras and cameras flashing.
Their emissions caused protests that forced our parliament to organise a public hearing.
The Heads of the national police and Jakarta were called, under enormous pressure popular, peat leaders were criminal defendants.
But Winata evadió political research simply declaring in public that its supporters had acted without he knew what and without their consent.
He then submitted its own criminal charges against Ahmad Taouffik, who wrote the article, Teuku Iskandar Ali, who issue, and myself.
The judicial procedure that lasted a year was plagued by a series of suspects events, all in favour of Winata.
First, the case tabled the police and the Prosecutor of the State contained documents that had been falsified so clearly that the police accused two official.
But the court rejected our request to delay the process until could clarify the legality of the case of the state.
The case against the official involved does not seem to be moving.
On the contrary, one of them was promoted to lead the newly established (with funds from the US) Anti-Terror Unity in Jakarta.
On the other states that was sent to the College for the staff of police to receive advanced training.
Subsequently, during the sixth month of the process, the chairman of the panel composed of three judges was suddenly promoted to lead the court of a city in Jakarta.
One of my lawyers commented in its 35 years of experience in courts had never seen replacing a president magistrate during a trial.
In fact, despite its rise, the judge followed taking another case in the same premises.
A judge who previously had ruled against Tempo in civil demand for Winata took office.
Finally, when Winata paid evidence, perjury committed to deny that Tempo had interviewed.
It occurred a recording of the telephone interview in the court, the reporter that made the interview and two publishers who witnessed gave evidence juries, the official registration of the telephone company was presented as evidence of the so-called and expert concluded that the voice in the recording was Tomy Winata.
But the judges refused the request of Tempo arrest and prosecute Winata perjury and said that we knew warning to the police, something that we did.
Then the judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the court until it is resolved the case of perjury against Winata.
Given the process so faulty, my condemnation and my judgment is not surprising.
But I still hope that win in the end, when the higher courts heed the appeal tabled by Tempo.
The courts in Indonesia are cleaner while higher hierarchy, and the President of the Supreme Court is a strong advocate of democracy and freedom of the press Tempo could become a victory that mark a milestone in our democracy, as it was the famous decision of the Supreme Court of the US in the case of The New York Times v Sullivan.
In doing more difficult charges of defamation, this decision guarantees that American journalists can make public officials accountable.
No country knows better than Indonesia that freedom of expression and a free press are tested indicators of democratic development and treat journalists as criminals is one symptom of authoritarianism.
Indonesia was a liberal democracy in the 1950 s, before President Sukarno, with the support of the military, began to suppress the press in 1956.
With critical voices hushed, consolidate a power without limit was easier and, in July 1959, Sukarno declared the start of the "Democracy Driven".
During the early years after the fall of Sukarno in 1966, restored all the advantages of genuine democracy, including the freedom of the press (except for the communists).
But the regime of President Suharto launched a new repression against the press in the early 1970 s, and in the end banned various means and jailed many journalists.
With the press under control, other political rights were restricted rapidly and democracy in Indonesia returned to fail.
Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the greatest Muslim democratic community of history.
There have been two parliamentary elections and two direct presidential elections - including the last contest presidencial-que have been open, fair and peaceful, which shows that Islam and democracy can coexist.
However, the enemies of democracy never lie.
radical Islamic groups have participated in indiscriminate attacks, while groupings with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the cosy circle of President Megawati.
But Mrs Megawati has defeated in their attempt to re-election.
Does the recently elected President Susilo continue accusing journalists?
Does my condemnation and the trials and condemnations of other journalists, indicate the beginning of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia that work cost?
The answer lies in the support that activists in favour of democracy in the country will generate both internally and at international level.
Losing Indonesia - a potential beacon of hope for all activists in favour of democracy in the Muslim community mundial-sería a terrible defeat.
The Morality of capital punishment
It is often criticised the United States for refusing to abolish capital punishment.
Many currently claim that the abolition of the death penalty pre-condition of a civilised criminal legal system.
The Nobel Prize Gary Becker disagrees.
European governments are firmly opposed to capital punishment -- the European Union prohibits completely - and some Europeans believe that their use in the United States is cruel.
Indeed, many European intellectuals argue that not only the death penalty but punishments generally do not dissuade criminals.
But while Europeans, with crime rates very below the US during the last half-century, could afford to be relatively "soft" with the majority of crimes, have seen a sudden increase in its crime rates in the last twenty years.
Instead, the US rates have fallen, partly due to a greater use of punishments.
This includes capital punishment.
I support the implementation of some people sentenced for murder because - and only because - believe that it avoids other murders.
If I believed I opposed to capital punishment, because revenge and other potential reasons should not be the basis of public policy.
The serious empirical studies on capital punishment in the US began with a pioneering study of Yitzhak Ehrlich in 1975 published in the American Economic Review.
Some subsequent studies have found a dissuasive effect much weaker, while others have found a much stronger.
However, the data available are fairly limited, so that cannot be based any conclusion exclusively on econométricas evidence.
Of course public policies in any punishment cannot wait until the evidence are ideal.
However, even with the limited quantitative evidence, there is reason to believe that the death penalty discourages.
The majority of people, and murderers in particular, fear death, especially when it comes swiftly and a considerable certainty after being committed murder.
As David Hume to talk about suicide, "nobody rejected his life while it was worth live it.
This is our natural terror to death... "Similarly, Schopenhauer thought that" the terrors life reach the point at which are superior to the terrors death, a man put an end to their lives.
But the terrors of death offer a considerable resistance... "
Those who are opposed to capital punishment often claim that the state has no moral right of depriving the lives of anyone, including the worst murderers.
But this is a completely wrong conclusion for anyone who believes that capital punishment discourages.
To see why, suppose that for every murderer executed (rather than sentenced to prison perpetual, for example), the number of murders are reduced by three, which is a figure well below the Ehrlich and other calculations of the dissuasive effect.
This means that for every murderer not executed die three innocent victims.
In fact, the government would indirectly contribute to "remove" many lives if not uses capital punishment.
Saving three innocent lives for every person executed appears to be a good compensation, and even two lives saved by implementation seems to be a convincing rate of cost-benefit for capital punishment.
However, it is true that the arguments in favour of the death penalty is less clear as the number of lives saved by decreasing implementation.
However, even if only a life saved by implementation, the option could still be desirable if the saved life is much better than quitada life, usually the case.
Many people object to compare the quality of life saved and quitada life.
However, I do not see how to prevent such comparison.
Consider a criminal career which steals and kills a victim had a decent life and that leaves several children and a wife.
Suppose it possible to save the life of an innocent victim to execute this criminal.
To me it is obvious that saving the lives of the victim must apply robbing the lives of the offender.
Obviously, not all cases are so clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must be part of any reasonable social policy.
This helps to explain why capital punishment should be used only in cases of murder and not minor offences.
When it comes to opt to remove lives and, say, reducing robbery, the arguments in favour of less severe punishments are much more solid.
Although the severe attacks, including some terrible violations, can move closer to the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support their use in such cases.
A powerful argument in favour of reserve the death penalty for the murderers is "marginal deterrence."
If the attacks to punish the implementation, criminals would have an incentive to kill their victims to avoid discovered (which is an important reason why the severity of punishment should be proportionate in general to the severity of the crimes).
One complication is that the death penalty can make the murderous fight with greater force to prevent his capture, which could lead to more deaths.
But if the marginal deterrence is important, I believe that the resistance of the murderers to be caught, possibly expense of their own lives, is really proof that criminals fear capital punishment.
Of course I am concerned about the risk of executing an innocent.
My support for the death penalty is considerably weaken if the rate of executions of innocent as high as many claim.
However, I believe that the appeal process in the US offers a huge protection, not against the wrong convictions but against improper executions, so that there are very few documented cases, if any, of innocent people who have been executed.
And this process has reinforced with the development of identification based on DNA.
Again, the debate on capital punishment is essentially a debate on deterrence (we can reduce with lengthy appeals).
I understand that some people are showing sceptical on the evidence, although I believe that wrong as on the element of common sense of the issue.
It is distressing robbing the lives of someone, even to a murderer, but sometimes require very unpleasant acts to avoid worse behaviour that end with the lives of innocent victims.
The people versus Putin
Ayudé to select Vladimir Putin to happen Boris Yeltsin, the first Russian President democratically elected.
Since the structures of the KGB and the Mafia now govern Russia and manipulate its judicial system, Yeltsin wanted to define who would be his successor to avoid legal prosecutions in the future.
But those selecting Putin had the task of finding a person who continued Yeltsin's reforms, not someone who hide him and his family.
In fact, Yeltsin no fear and not sought personal survival, but the democratic idea that introduced in Russia.
However, this idea is threatened due to the successor to chose.
I do not deny my responsibility for having supported Putin.
We were closest friends, but working together in critical situations, and never doubted its sincerity.
Putin acts guided by their convictions.
The problem is that, including its belief that Russia can only flourish if it is governed by a power originated in a single source, are wrong.
This mistake is taking Russia to ruin policy.
Of course, nobody takes a high office to mistakes, even some fundamental, and this is particularly true in tumultuous periods.
Yeltsin was not an exception, but the acknowledged.
For example, when withdrew at the New Years Eve of 1999 he apologized for starting the war in Chechnya.
In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognise and admit their mistakes, and persists in implementing a policy long after its failure is obvious to everybody.
One of the errors of Yeltsin was not moral priorities at the head of its reform programme.
Russia should be regretted of Stalinism and the Gulag system of fields of forced labour.
The entire nation, without exceptions, should have regretted, as the Germans have done since 1945.
This omission is important, because it enabled the unhappy belief Putin in a central authority would also produce the recaptura of the state of the security services.
In fact, a direct result of the national remorse for the Gulag should have been the prohibition of the communist party and disqualifying who had worked in the KGB to exercise political posts.
Although these political filters are a complex matter in postcommunist societies, where both victimisation as cooperation are so widespread and the boundaries between them are so unclear, could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
The do nothing left of Russian security structures unscathed and the ability to make a political return, which currently have achieved.
The political resurrection of the structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence dissent, once again have turned Russia in a country of dissidents.
It is impossible to silence the politicians and the independent media without strangle the sources of financing independent, and that is why the Kremlin Putin has concentrated its attacks on so-called "oligarchs".
The arrest and trial of Mikhail Khodorkovsky were orchestrated precisely for this reason.
By eliminating the sources of financing independent, the security services that dominate the Kremlin expect destroy the independent political life in Russia.
Without independent thought bases, guaranteeing a climate of fear.
But not only fear deteriorating: creates the conditions for a bad governance.
Yeltsin understood intuitively that fear and centralised decision-making and top-down were ways to govern a modern country, and insisted on reforming the relations between the citizens and the state.
Putin still do not understand that a centralized political system is so unable to understand and correct errors now as it was in the Soviet era.
Putin, which is not a man well educated, is leading to Russia, with a deep and honest conviction, the same disintegration that arose in connection with the collapse of the Soviet state.
The people are beginning to realise this.
People see that Putin's desire to create a modern state strong and effective cannot, because a modern state is not ruled from above, but by an informed citizenry to make their rulers to recognise and correct its mistakes.
Putin seems suspect the powerlessness of his regime.
This is one of the reasons that Russia has become so aggressive towards its neighbours, Ukraine and Georgia, and it seems a military presence in places like Transnistria, separatist region of Moldova.
By launching its weight on its closest neighbours, the Kremlin thinks that can persuade the Russians omnipotence.
Given the emasculated that the debate is in Russia, and the ability of the Kremlin to manipulate elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who want to preserve the democratic idea in the country.
It makes no sense to cling to empty illusions.
Opponents of Putin must decide what they want and declare that, if the regime does not adhere to the constitution, have the right to force it to do so, by any means necessary.
At present, the question of power in Russia can no longer decide only at the ballot box.
As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will be decided in the streets.
Tax and spending in India
A tax level too high can reduce incentives and hinder the growth.
But too low a level can give the same result.
The governments with few tax revenue cannot provide basic public services.
Worse still, the few tax revenue in poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in the systems of taxation (more than low taxes) also promote little productivity in companies.
India illustrates the importance of a system of taxation well designed.
In Bangalore, high-tech companies built facilities for international quality meadows care and communication networks of high speed.
However, outside of these installations drenajes open, rubbish without harvesting streets and bad state.
While technology companies instantly transmitted information terrabytes remote continents, local transport works at a pace almost medieval.
As a result, businesses in Bangalore have their own services of buses, employ private providers of drinking water and fitted generators to protect themselves from breaks in the electricity supply.
The state cannot resolve the disaster because it is bankrupt.
The government debt in India is over 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenues are dedicated to the payment of interests.
But the debt is not result of an excessive expenditure in the past.
The government spending in India is about 15% of GDP, compared with an average of around 40% of GDP in the OECD.
Rather, the financial difficulties in India arise from a bad tax system designed and badly managed.
The rates and rules for income taxes staff and corporate are reasonable under international criteria.
However, the Indian Government collects income taxes which barely reach about 3.7% of GDP, more or less half of what they receive South Korea and other Asian tigers.
The agriculture in India represents around 25% of GDP, but even the rich farmers pay taxes.
Companies geared to export in the software industry and other enjoy tax privileges, although their employees do pay taxes about their personal income.
Although the rates are reasonable evasion is widespread.
This happens because the government has invested in staff or systems for detecting tax evaders, who rarely go to prison and often can give bribes to emerge from the spot when achieve catch.
more subtle, the evasion of "direct" taxes on income and profits reflects the disarray in the system of "indirect taxes" on the production and consumption.
The consumer tax represents more than 60% of indirect taxes in India, which in turn is the same proportion of their total tax revenues.
The basic consumer tax sets 16% of the value of the production of a company.
Then there are several concessions, exemptions and surcharges.
For example, applies a rate of "dealers rights" 8% to areas such as food products, cerillos, cotton hilados and computers.
In addition, a "excise consumption" (IEC) by 8% to products which include polyester strands, cars, air processors and tyres.
It also applies a "additional consumption tax" (IAC, not confused with the IEC "products of special importance."
The exemptions from excise duty are numerous and complex, and include companies with total annual income of less than 10 million rupees and companies located in areas of conflict or backward.
Overall, the exemptions are divided into 70 categories, sub-divided in 259 items, 52 conditions and seven lists, each of which contains several articles.
The derogations invite abuse.
For a sum of money, we can persuade the officials of low level, who have a considerable discretion to implement the conditions favourable interpretations.
The goods with high rates (for example, the polished bit) sold as commodities with lower rates (for example, as fine-tuning bit).
The evasion of excise duty is more contagious evasion of income taxes and profits.
If a company evaded excise duties and the tax rate is high compared with the margins of profit before tax of its industry, their competitors also have to do so, simply to survive.
As the evasion increases, governments impose rights "additional" or "special" that generate more evasion.
The collection of direct taxes are affected.
The bribe paid to the tax man consumption, the difference between the value of the bit refined and refine inaccurate and the reports on the real income create "black 'funds may not pencil in the declarations of taxes.
In addition to affect the ability of the state to provide basic public services, tricks to evade indirect taxes also discourage companies to take more productive technologies, which require methods with large-scale operations.
But, because it is easier to evade the indirect taxes operating several small units instead of a large, economies of scale cannot be created.
Needless stress that the software industry, where all units are exempt from indirect taxes, Indian companies operate an efficient scale.
Can India emulate the example of China, where the rationalisation of indirect taxes in 1994 created the conditions for a great boom?
Did the coalition governments of a vigorous democracy are not able to make such a reform?
Last year, the government of India, led by the BJP, adopted legislation that ordered severe cuts in the budget deficit larger.
Nombró a special group to formulate the necessary changes in tax and spending policies.
In July of this year, the group proposed increasing taxes (instead of spending cuts) by, among other things, the elimination of most of the exemptions of indirect taxation.
India's new government, led by the Party Congress also seems to be in favour of these proposals.
If the Party of Congress and opposition parties to formalise, this will be a breakthrough for maintaining the economic growth of the country and to dispel the idea that democracies cannot do what is needed to promote development.
What is wrong with Turkey?
On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most famous writers of Turkey, presented before a court in Istanbul to face the charge of "insult the national identity" after advocacy of an open debate on the Turkish genocide of 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and 1916.
Pamuk can face a judgment of three years in prison.
The attitude of Turkey fined and sent to prison those who do not follow the official line confirms my opposition to open negotiations on its accession as a member of the European Union.
In December 1999, the European Council gave Turkey the status of miembro-candidato to the EU, implying that accede to the Union at a future date and not specified.
Subsequently, the Council asked the European Commission to decide for October 2004 if Turkey had satisfied with sufficient political criteria - including democracy, the rule of law and respect for the rights of minorities ethical - for its membership.
That decision was one of the latest Commission Romano Prodi, of which I was a member.
its 30 members, 29 said that Turkey had satisfied the criteria enough to move in the process.
I was the only dissent.
The Commission report on Turkey, prepared by Günter Verheugen, who then was in charge of the enlargement of the EU, reflected my decision.
The document mentioned in 2003 close to 21.870 presented applications for asylum to the EU, of which were accepted 2.127.
In other words, the EU governments recognised in 2003 that the Turkish government had pursued more than 2,000 of its citizens.
Meanwhile, the Commission published a progress report on Turkey, which stated that the reforms continued, albeit at a reduced rate, under the rule of moderate Islamic orientation of the Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
However, the report also raised serious apprehension: continued violations of human rights, including torture; the influence of military still too high; freedom of expression is not fulfilled universal; cultural and religious minorities not Muslim suffered discrimination; and there was a clear and forceful opposition on the part of power to violence against women.
There has been many changes since the start of the talks on accession to the EU, made in October.
Beyond the current persecution Pamuk, abound unacceptable behaviour.
In March 2005, the police violently dispersed a demonstration celebrating International Women's Day.
In May, the largest trade union of teachers was banned in promoting the education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.
In fact, intolerance goes to the top of the Turkish government.
The Minister for Foreign Relations, Abdullah Gül, abruptly cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen when we saw a Kurdish journalist between the public and the Danish refusing to expel him.
These actions and attitudes widely justify my disagreement in October 2004.
However, even if they were exhausted, Turkey should not be admitted to the EU, because it is not a European country.
Christianity, feudalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, democracy and industrialisation have become what we as Europeans, but have turned the Turks in what are.
I am not convinced that the computer-implemented reforms in Turkey by the insistence of the European Commission should continue after the country finally enters the EU.
In fact, I suspect that there will be a step backwards.
Moreover, the admission of Turkey would lead inevitably to Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Certainly, the first three of these countries are more European than Turkey.
Leaving aside the three Caucasus republics, but including those states that were before Yugoslavia, the EU transferred to have nearly 35 Member.
What kind of Union?
The EU is not simply a club of friends.
It is based on the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.
The Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties of the European Union, must protect these four basic freedoms, which means that sometimes must persuade and, if necessary, to force the Member States to change their legislation.
The Swedish alcohol policy, Volkswagen law in Germany and the discrimination against the funds of foreign investment in France are examples of cases that have become unpopular to the Commission.
But were necessary.
To left when the Commission, before me fajo 1,500 of these reasons infringement.
In short, membership leads to accept sharps measures which profoundly affect the internal affairs of a state.
This will be impossible to do so different.
The EU will become victims of what the historian Paul Kennedy called "imperial sobreextensión."
dilute beyond what is acceptable.
That is why the former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing feared that their accession ended producing a breakdown in the EU and the German Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt declared that "Turkish membership would be more than the EU could withstand."
However, the strongest reason to oppose the accession of Turkey is a matter of democracy: the majority of the population of the EU simply does not want.
The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America
Look, Bolivia is not a typical Latin American country.
After Haiti, is the second most poor nation in the Western Hemisphere, and even less stable, with a history marked by more than 200 coups since independence.
In a region with a strong indigenous past, but with a crossed and isolated, Bolivia is, together with Guatemala, perhaps the only country in Latin America where indigenous peoples constitute the majority of the population.
Its topography and ethnic distribution are generally autonomous, even act as separatist forces that threaten national unity of the most terrible ways than in any other country.
And, of course, with Paraguay the only nation without access to the sea in the subcontinent.
So it would be highly unwise extrapolate the current crisis Bolivian to the rest of Latin America.
It is too simplistic generalise: the institutions in all other countries are much more solid, poverty (particularly extreme poverty is decreasing and, in large measure, the battle for natural resources has been resolved.
Even in countries such as Venezuela, with enormous reserves of oil and a government of mentality traditionally nationalist, the status quo which allows foreign investment in the energy resources has survived almost eight years of government of President Hugo Chávez.
While the existence of indigenous movements is a reality in many countries, in Chiapas to the "Araucanía" and the Amazon Ayacucho, in any country in Latin America has represented a real threat to national integrity.
Bolivia is not a crisis that may herald others in the region, nor the vexed "domino theory," sustained by Lyndon Johnson as Che Guevara in the Bolivian case, seems valid or even halfway reasonable.
However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of the "democratic deficit" suffering Latin America at the moment.
Elected rulers have failed, for one reason or another, in Bolivia, Ecuador and Haiti.
Democracy is absent or is incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua, and is threatened by one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
None of these cases is identical to others, which include varying levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.
The question is what can be done about this situation, which contrasts markedly with the encouraging prospects that prevailed only a few years ago.
At the last meeting of the Organisation of American States in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, America took a good idea for others had, and supporting, basically ended with it.
The history began a couple of years ago, when the Argentine former Minister of external relations Dante Caputo and the United Nations Development Programme were outlined the report on Democracy in Latin America.
They came to the conclusion that an early warning system of crisis of democracy in the region help to generate actions before things were to be out of control, as happens today in Bolivia.
Caputo and the UN team then persuaded the Chilean President Ricardo Lagos to take the initiative and promote between several of your colleagues.
It did, but did not very far.
Indeed, the UNDP report on Democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, just mentioned.
America and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean José Miguel, Insulza resucitaron plan during the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but it was rejected due to reasonable Latin American fears that the idea was directed against Venezuela, combined with the anachronistic misgivings of Latin American countries for a violated the sacrosanct principle of intervention.
Although the continent could not agree on the principle underlying the proposal, the idea of an early warning system deserves attention.
Today, it is possible that little hemispheric community can do about what happens in Bolivia, and yet the situation is preñada risks for all.
Evo Morales, leader of the opposition and leaf coca growers, may be an honest democratic leader, although disoriented, but lack his followers of authoritarian wishes?
Hugo Chávez is not financing Morales and the other dissidents Bolivians, but Venezuela and Cuba are not tempted to interfere in the country where Che Guevara died trying to generate a guerrilla war almost 40 years ago?
The business community of Bolivian region of Santa Cruz cannot make its threat to separate the country, but prefer share its reserves of oil and gas with the indigenous peoples of the Highlands, instead of industrial Brazilian São Paulo?
Before the events reach these points, could be a good idea that the OAS (USA) engaged.
The region still needs this participation, with an appropriate compromise, with message and based on a proper democratic platform, which differs from the traditional US intervention of traditional American indifference.
The deterioration in France?
The French are extremely sensitive (not to say on the defensive) on the stature of their country in the world.
The French State spends huge sums of money in the spread of its language and culture, and yet, the French are painfully aware that the overall stance of their country is not what was once.
It is not surprising, then, that during the last presidential elections, the publication of a report by the European Commission, which claimed that economic France had passed from the third to the tenth between European countries in a period of ten years, has led soul-searching and controversy. Shortly afterwards, President Jacques Chirac accused his rival, Lionel Jospin, causing a "deterioration in France."
The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought they had ended this aspect of the controversy show that France, Germany, Italy and Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
But the more general debate not subsided.
Again references appeared on "the French deterioration" during this year's street protests against the reform of the pension system, growing disputes on fiscal policy with the European Commission and the riots with the United States on the war in Iraq.
Currently, the best book sold in France is a controversial by Nicolas Baverez, qui tombe France (France that falls).
The book Baverez is full of meetings de Gaulle and Napoleon.
In accordance with the author, the last great achievements of France were in the 1970 s, with the launch of the fast train, the TGV, and the Airbus.
He hits Mitterrand as Chirac for their "shared talent to win elections and France a failure."
The success of the book is itself symptom of a type of "unease."
But, of what kind?
Evidence of degradation Baverez are not as convincing as he believes.
For example, points to the loss of industrial jobs as the most clear evidence of the deterioration in France.
However, deindustrialisation is common to all advanced countries.
Indeed, France will better than the majority of his rivals rich and, unlike in Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has kept the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector that had the beginning of the 1970 s.
Furthermore, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, foreign investment, France is going very well.
According to a recent report by the Council of Economic Analysis, direct investment in France grew to 60 billion in 2001, almost twice in Germany.
The competitiveness costs of the country also improved (20%) in the last three decades, greater productivity has balanced rapid growth in wages.
But the heart of the long-term economic problems of France is precisely the fear of losing industrial jobs.
France remains a strong industrial power in traditional areas such as the automotive and aerospace, but it is lags in innovative markets, where smaller companies disseminated new technologies.
For example, France spends only 30 billion dollars a year in research and development of high technology, in comparison with the 51 billion in Germany, 98 billion of Japan and the 265 billion of the United States.
In short, the analysis of Baverez points in the wrong direction.
France has riven by a series of reforms of critical over the last two decades: economic and financial liberalization, abolition of checks on prices and the exchange rate, the end of restrictions on credit, reduction of inflation and trade deficits, the arrival of the euro and the forced globalisation of businesses in the country.
The unease French has nothing to do with any of them.
The problem with France is that fails to recognise the new world that part.
The French state capitalism has died and France costs work accept his death.
Indeed, France has to be the only country in which a Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, feels the obligation to apologise to the day after having said on television that "the state is not omnipotent."
There are many reasons behind this French schizophrenia, but one of the main has to do with the political game of the past 20 years.
Until 1981, in France had a clear division between the right and left.
Since then, the administrations of Mitterrand as Chirac moderation their ideological positions in order to carry out the difficult process of adjustment towards Europe and globalisation.
A "shock therapy" in the style of
Thatcher two decades ago could have forged a new political consciousness, but the slowness in achieving the consensus to approve the reforms allowed the French live in a world and think.
This is one of the fundamental reasons political disaster that erupted during the last presidential campaign, when the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, came to the second round of the elections
The rise of the extreme Left, which received 10% of the vote in this presidential campaign, is proof of the political failure.
France needs a political revolution, more than an economic, if you want to reconcile themselves with reality, part of which is that the French "deterioration" is a fear that the French themselves have created.
The value of European values
European leaders have resurrected constitutional talks that was interrupted last December by a dispute by voting rights.
Of course, these disputes are subject to arrangements, which will probably be achieved.
What we still need is a clear understanding of what is seeking the constitution achieved.
Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: solidarity and subsidiarity.
Both principles are in the crossing of philosophy, politics, economics, sociology and the law.
They have been here for years in the legal and institutional framework of the European Union - treaties, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights (quoted in its preamble), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.
In short, form part of the history and the ideals of the EU.
But what really mean solidarity and subsidiarity?
Consider solidarity, which is open to at least two interpretations: the static solidarity, which only has to do with the distribution of income and wealth, and the broader concept of solidarity dynamic, which also relates to the production of income and wealth.
In the post-war history of European integration, the dynamic solidarity had force in the first period (the European Coal and Steel Community) in its economic development strategy (reconstruction) and in the treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.
This does not mean that the dynamic solidarity would be deleted subsequently: the European Monetary Union, for example, is another of their expressions.
So, although some countries do not benefited immediately with the euro, accepted anyway because were convinced that in the long term have positive effects.
In other words, the dynamic solidarity means promote policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.
However, as the GDP growth in the EU, the dynamic solidarity has weakened in the last decade.
The most worrying is the delay in research.
The implementation of the so-called Lisbon strategy, which the EU adopted in 2000, and it promised create the most competitive economy in the world is threatened by an emphasis more static solidarity, which is reflected in the high costs of social security and high taxes needed to finance it.
The predominance of the static solidarity is due to an ageing population, which, coupled with a slower growth, has generated structural fiscal imbalances.
One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of solidarity static directed towards the elderly on the dynamic solidarity that benefits the young.
After all, the Union cannot allow consumption continues to overcoming the necessary investment to ensure the future prosperity.
Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity that has two interpretations: the vertical subsidiarity and horizontal subsidiarity.
The vertical subsidiarity is related to the distribution of power between the different levels of government and sovereignty: the EU, the Member States, regions and municipalities.
The most well-known application of this principle is federalism.
In the European treaties, we can find a clear expression of vertical subsidiarity.
But does is enough to accommodate the institutional and constitutional arrangements that are emerging in the Union?
The horizontal subsidiarity has to do with the responsibility and the freedom of the human being, and the economic and social forces.
It covers relations between the state, society and the market.
But society and the market have their own rights and sovereignty, which are not granted by the state.
Thus, the problem lies in ensuring the autonomy of each area.
An example of horizontal subsidiarity is the European internal market, which created a new kind of economic freedom and increased competition between companies to eliminate the protection offered the national governments.
The horizontal subsidiarity means that both socially and economically, the state cannot violate individual liberty and responsibility, which must be respected as far as possible.
It also means that a "superior power" must support when individual liberty and accountability are not enough to achieve the resources necessary to human dignity.
However, this support must be implemented to promote the natural potential of individuals, society and the market.
But this is only possible when the role of the horizontal subsidiarity is clearly defined, which does not happen in the European treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights or work of the European Convention.
In short, solidarity has become redistribution instead of growth (which is the way in which the present generation expresses its solidarity with future generations), while subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, more than a careful delimitation of the borders between state, civil society and the market.
Today, the definitions of both values encourage the state.
Indeed, focusing on growth based on the market is often identifies with the values semi-ajenos United States.
But these values are deeply rooted in Europe, and it is necessary to get them in the light of new.
The EU must re-establish its economic vitality through a model of solidarity and subsidiarity more balanced in favour of the market and society, and to reduce socio-economic influence of the state.
The institutions of the State must provide public goods (such as defence, justice and fiscal and monetary policy), society must provide social goods (as culture, education and assistance to the needy) and the market must provide economic goods (which are connected with profit, growth and employment.
In the 21 st century, Europe must reconsider the value of both principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if it is to achieve the historical goal of integration: freedom and prosperity required to overcome the differences and political divisions that caused the tragedies of the twentieth century.
That is the spirit in which the European Constitution should be drafted.
The policy of the values
The debate on the US elections amainado.
How managed President George W. Bush obtain three million more votes than Senator John Kerry and, furthermore, an elected Republican majority in both houses of the Congress?
There is no agreement in the answers, but two themes recur in many of the explanations.
One is the personality.
In times of uncertainty and threat, people had more confidence in the president knew that the candidate not yet been tested.
The second issue are the values.
The people voted for a set of values rather than by specific policies.
In fact, some () agreed with the policies of Kerry, yet gave its vote Bush because they felt "happy" with their general attitude.
It is clear that the United States are currently deeply divided into electoral terms.
A arc of blue states (democrats) in the north and west around a huge area red (Republican) in central and southern.
Moreover, divisions reproduce at local level.
It is not necessary to define the limits of electoral districts to benefit some political party in particular.
People tends to move to areas where the majority shares their values, Republicans or democrats.
What exactly these values?
They relate, or that heard, "god, weapons and gay."
Religion plays a role, including literal truth of the bible on the history of the creation.
The possession of a weapon is the latest evidence of individualism, and using weapons in wars is not deplorable.
The practical gay and "modern practices are rejected by excessive.
As raised the political scientist Andrew Hacker recently: "the candidature of Bush was prepared to achieve a majority giving some 60 million people the opportunity to feel about themselves".
Is this the an American phenomenon, or perhaps similar tendencies elsewhere?
One answer is that American phenomenon, the policy of values can have a majority now, but by no means general.
Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.
The personality certainly matters, and below open political differences can also have questions of values that have arisen to the surface.
But traditional political differences based on the disagreement on fundamental values play a declining role in elections.
For example, Prime Minister Tony Blair, the next leader important to face elections uses the argument of personality and speaks of policies, but on a set of values of middle class.
When talking about "modernisation" or "the twenty-first century" achieved imply a strange mixture but attractive of change and stability.
This has left the conservative opposition without an effective response.
Even issues such as tax cuts and more stringent asylum laws unable to achieve the fibres of the values that the Republican Party of the United States has achieved touch.
The picture is similar in Germany, where the open influence of the policy of values is even less.
The German debate is still largely a debate of policies.
When the opposition offers the government talks on the reform of the health system or more recently on combating unemployment, the underlying competition is on capabilities, rather than on values.
However, below the battlefields common political debate in England and Germany and elsewhere in Europe lurk values of shocks.
The parties fighting for those "feel well with themselves", but perhaps not fully realize that this is only partly policies.
It is unlikely that religion becomes a central factor in European policy; polls show that religious observance is one of the few major differences between Europeans and Americans.
The weapons also have a different place in European mind; the Europeans consider important is its absence.
It is unmistakeable a spate of pacifists values in the continent.
But the issue of political correctness ("gays") also plays a role hitherto underestimated.
What is most important is that Europe itself divides Europeans, as the "national question" arises in each State of the continent.
It is a matter of values, inspired by fear.
People want to know where belongs, and in this process become against the United States and Europe or against Europe and his country.
Anyway, departing from the scope of policies, and even political and joined the dubious domain of symbols and myths.
This, in any case, it is the main risk facing democratic countries, because the policy of values is dangerous.
Reintroduce fundamental divisions in societies whose democratic major achievement was precisely eradicate fundamentalism of policy.
A public debate illustrated must be a dispute about political framed in a community of values.
Therefore, insist on this is a prime objective of the policy of freedom.
It is approaching the era of interests
A swallow does not summer, and a month of normal growth in employment and prices in the United States does not mean that the Fed is no longer concerned about the economic malaise and deflation.
But the day will come when interest rates global start to rise, as central bankers to prepare for resisting the slow upward trend of inflation.
When that day - whether next autumn, in 2005 or 2006 or 2007 - the United States and the global economy will face financial vulnerabilities of the product success in the last three years has had the monetary stimulation to stop reductions in production and moderate unemployment.
The short-term interest rates are amazingly low: barely 2% in the euro zone of 1% in the US and zero in Japan.
The expansionary monetary policy has been successful, but only with regard to reduce interest rates to historically low levels - and to persuade investors that the costs of the appropriations will their current levels for a long time.
The main outcome of the monetary stimulus was raising asset prices fixed: anything that produces yields, dividends or income is much more attractive - and much more valuable in terms of money - when interest rates are very low and are expected to follow.
This explains the large gaps that exist between the current prices of goods roots in the US, actions in New York, London and Frankfurt, and long-term bonds everywhere, and what you consider normally its fundamental values.
What will happen when the banks begin to raise interest rates?
Moreover, interest rates in peripheral economies in development grew much more the advanced industrial core.
Thus, the first danger to worry in 2005 - when it is more likely that interest rates eleven-es another wave of financial crises in the emerging markets.
For countries like Mexico, Brazil, Turkey, Argentina, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand, the record of the 1990 s shows that the differences in interest rates can be extended and capital flows can reverse incredibly fast, regardless of the officials of the IMF and the analysis of the most important banks see welcome the policies of a country.
The differences in interest rates of the emerging markets today are abnormally low.
The international capital flows - without including reaching the EU-todavía are not associated with the "irrational exuberance", but there is still time to happen before interest rates start to rise.
This is an alarming perspective, because the lesson that we left the 1990 s was that nobody should overestimate the stability of the international financial flows.
The second danger stems from the high value of goods in the industrial core progress.
The mainstream of thought in the Federal Reserve - with which I acuerdo-parece that the revolution informático-tecnológica still, that the rate of growth of the potential production in the US is still very fast and that, therefore, the output gap is relatively broad.
This means that, in fact, interest rates remain low for a considerable period.
Moreover, confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and were extracted from interest rates the last vestiges of risk premiums inflation.
As a result, even after the levels of production return to its potential, interest rates remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980 s and 1990 s.
All this, of course, good news for those who have assets as long-term bonds, actions and real estate.
Indeed, raise prices in the long term of goods was precisely the objective of lowering interest rates: after all, richer bondholders in the owners of real estate is an incentive for expenditure.
But bad is that even if it is hoped that interest rates remain low for a time, not be maintained so low indefinitely.
The fact is that when interest rates rise, the value of goods fall.
In these periods - particularly when the value of assets fall quickly and sustancial-podemos realise exactly the ability of our central bankers to fulfil its main task: to reduce the financial volatility and promoting economic stability.
Also in these times we realize the number of people long-term bonds, real estate or actions not because I consider that the current prices are attractive in connection with the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
That is a crucial issue for designers policies, because those who purchased goods long-term because of what seemed to be a permanent increase in prices are the same as will have to sell prices show backwards.
In particular, the trade deficit of the US indication as an enormous source of instability if the prices of goods long-term fall significantly.
Certainly the challenges face designers of economic policy in the world over the next few years will be different to those who have approached from the collapse of the bubble of the NASDAQ.
The risks associated with inflation perhaps are less dangerous than those that generate the fall in production and the threat of deflation.
But, as learned in the 1990 s, this does not mean that future challenges will be easier to handle.
The future opposing the United States
Recently I knew anything interesting: the American economists of international finance and the Americans macroeconomistas aimed at local analysis of the USA have very different views -- indeed, opposing) on the likely implications of the enormous US current-account deficit.
The international finance economists see likely that in the United States happen a financial crisis, followed by a painful recession and perhaps prolonged.
The macroeconomistas aimed at local analysis, in contrast, see the imminent fall in the value of the dollar as a crisis, but as an opportunity to accelerate growth.
In general terms, see the situation in the following way: at some point in the future, foreign central banks will be less willing to continue buying large quantities of values denominated in dollars in order to underpin the currency role.
When finish its programmes of purchase of dollars in large scale, the value of the dollar will fall -- and strong fall.
However, according to this view, as shirk the value of the dollar US exports will be more attractive to foreigners, employment strengthen and reincorporará labour to the export sector, which experienced a new phase of boom.
It is what happened in England after left anchoring its exchange rate and enabled the pound to depreciate with regard to the Deutschmark, or what happened in the United States in the late 1980, when the dollar depreciated against the pound, the Deutschmark and - most importantly - the Japanese yen.
Economists of international finance see a future much bleaker.
They see the end of programmes to purchase of dollars in large scale of the central banks mean not only a decline in the dollar, but also a rise in the long-term interest rates of the USA, which immediately undermine consumer spending and stifle investment expenditure after a small delaying.
There is no doubt that economists of international finance also see that US exports will profit as the value of the dollar fall, but retardos demand are such that the exporter impetus will be a year or two after the low in the consumer spending and investment.
Eight ten million people will have to change jobs, from the services sector and construction sectors associated with exports and goods that compete with imports, which means that increase structural unemployment.
Moreover, may have a financial panic: the large financial institutions with short-term indebtedness and active long-term will be in difficulties facing a huge increase in long-term interest rates denominated in dollars.
This disparity can cause financial tensions and bankruptcies as easy as the debts of short-term in dollars and the assets of the banks local currency caused during the Mexican crisis and the Asian in the 1990 s, and the Argentine crisis in this decade.
When the economists of international finance describe this scenario, macroeconomistas aimed at local analysis of the USA respond that sounds a case of incompetent monetary policy.
Why does the Federal Reserve should allow long-term interest rates were huge increases only because other central banks have completed their programmes to purchase of dollars?
There should intervene and replace them with their own bond purchases of the Treasury of the USA, maintaining the long-term interest rates at a level that leads to full employment?
, the economists of international finance respond that the Federal Reserve does not have the power to do so.
If forced to choose between full employment and the stability of prices, economists of international finance say that the Federal Reserve selected price stability, since its institutional memory of the 1970 s, when inflation was clouds, remains very strong.
Therefore, since a fall in the value of the dollar increases the prices of imports and functions as a negative blow to the supply side of the economy, the Federal Reserve will increase, not decrease, interest rates and sell bonds instead of buying them.
In both sides in this debate serious economists who greatly respect.
I am the wise enough to say what is the right side, but certainly know what I hope that wrong.
The scroungers of Europe
In the United States, the states that have inadequate fiscal policies are facing a punishment.
Their bonds are sold with a reduction in connection with better administered states.
The highest debt servicing that have to pay works -- some degree -- as a form of discipline against the temptation to spend now and then paid.
Of course, the discipline of the market is not perfect: the bond market in large measure "sees future passive" implicit (as payments promised by pensions).
However, this fiscal discipline forced, together with the budget procedures of each state, has avoided a fiscal crisis large-scale at state level in the US since the Great Depression.
Now the case in Europe.
Before the adoption of the euro there were many fiscal crisis in the nation states in the south of the continent, which produced waves of high inflation.
But with the establishment of the single currency was concluded the way for the solution of financial crises through inflation, because the European Central Bank (ECB) monitors monetary policy.
However, even if the nation states can no longer rely on inflation to resolve their financial imbalances, the single currency allows them to use the capacity for indebtedness that properly belongs to other members of the European Union to extend its adventures of expenditure and postpone accountability policies for their periods of laissez bons temps roulés.
To avoid this possibility, the EU created the Stability and Growth Pact: the government deficits were to be minors to 3% of GDP.
Last week, the government of Germany - which was once the member country of the EU more cautious and disciplined - broke the rules of the pact on fiscal discipline on the fifth year running, and did so without (large) apologies.
The finance minister, Peer Steinbrueck, indicated that it expected that the European Commission imposed sanctions to Germany. He if it took the credibility of the pact would be at risk.
Therefore, Germany will not block the sanctions, as it did two and a half years ago.
But Steinbrueck also made clear that hoped that sanctions in response to the fiscal deficit of Germany 3.4% of GDP were largely symbolic, and not punishments that costing his government or its economy.
The Stability and Growth Pact is not working - or at least not yet - remotely as intended to do that.
And the discipline of the market?
Is limited perhaps the German Government to deliver more debt and have higher deficits because the market recognises and penalizes the nation states that allow their tax positions weakened?
In a word, not.
The interest rates of the so-called sovereign debt in euros of the twelve governments of the eurozone are very similar.
Therefore, the market does not seem care that countries have different potential to generate exports to finance the necessary financial flows to pay the debt or different relations current debt and planned - GDP.
Willem Buiter of the University of Amsterdam and Anne Sibert of the London University believe that has been the ECB's willingness to accept all the debt of the eurozone as a guarantee that has undermined the provision of the market to act as responsible for fiscal prudence.
While a marginal part of the German debt is used as a guarantee for a loan of short term or as a basis for an agreement to buy back to liquidity, is much more likely that its value determined by the terms in which the ECB welcomes the guarantees that its foundations.
The treatment that now the ECB to all these debts as powerful source of liquidity reserve dashes any analysis of the differences in the risk of sovereign long term.
In the long run, is dangerous.
Both the discipline of the market and tax administration are needed to create a reasonable opportunity for price stability long term.
If omit the market punishments for behaviour that can return reckless or institutional levers voice to future generations, serious risks run -- perhaps not today or tomorrow, but one day and the rest of our lives.
As time passes, the arrival of the single currency and the way in which the euro has been implemented are generating more concern.
The whole policy throughout the euro-zone is too Deflationary.
We are making the necessary transfers so that the common currency is bearable in the regions that suffer and which are already in recession when the ECB does the most restrictive policy.
The institutional foundations of a stable fiscal policy of long-term are being eroded.
And now, Buiter and Sibert argue convincingly, the ECB is giving the market less room for which should have to reward to save and punish those who squandered.
There is not movements of soil, and not the will for some time.
But the land under the euro could begin to knock if things do not change.
Milosevic and Hussein: the farce as trial
The judgments of war criminals used to be a serious matter.
Remember the photographs of Herman Goering and Rudolf Hess, taciturnos, sitting in the dock at Nuremberg.
Some Nazi leaders were even after hanged relatively short but fair trials.
Currently, the legal process against the more wicked leaders of the world have turned into a farce.
The trial of Saddam Hussein and his cronies Baathists party is a never-ending series of disgraces.
The defendants use a ruse after another Hussein and shows contempt for all possible ways.
It is difficult to expect a result which is legitimate to eyes of Iraqis or in the world.
Meanwhile, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic became funeral after four years of evidence dull and a cost of more than 200 million dollars.
In Cambodia, the UN and the government have almost ten years wavering on how to trial of the survivors members of the Khmer Rouge.
The mass murderers who took power in the twentieth century were condemned to die in popular uprisings or to be judged on its crimes - - that is, if not died in office.
Who can be proud that the last communist head of Romania, Nicolaï Ceaucescu, and his wife were executed without even the slightest appearance of a fair trial?
The formalities of a real court always seem better than the snapshot justice, although the end result is also the death.
At present there are two possible ways to act against a tyrant deposed.
A nation can lead to trial of their own former leaders, as did Argentina in the 1980 's with the general responsible for the disappearance of more 5,000 of its citizens.
At international level, the model of Nuremberg still available to generate additional trials, albeit under the misleading conditions that the victorious powers sometimes assign responsibility for the crimes, as in the case of "crimes against humanity ', which were not properly defined at the time committed.
There was a time when could see the advantages of national trials as international.
The internal trials allowed the local community alleviate their sadness closely involved in the process.
As judges and jury, the defendants compatriots could also exert greater sensitivity in assessing the blame because there were the harsh conditions in which a dictator deposed had taken its decisions.
The trial of the general in Argentina was a ritual successful in the painful transition from the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience there were many doubts.
Even after the condemnations, general were powerful enough to ensure that the trials finished and then obtain the pardon of the incoming president.
The policy of Argentina is still entangled in the legal consequences of those judgments of 20 years ago.
At international level, the UN Security Council decision to establish the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY by its initials in English) was also received with great confidence.
The ICTY took several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
However, the judges had the misfortune to fulfil their dream more ambitious - judge in its court archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
Now it is not clear how the Serbs have handled Milosevic in a local trial.
Much have dependent on the political party checked the court.
At international level, the fear was not see too policy but too right.
The trial of Milosevic had to be more than fair; had to be an emblem of the justice of the UN.
allowed Milosevic defend itself - a big mistake in terms of the duration and efficiency of the trial.
It was a limit on the number of witnesses to tax called pay testimony about the same ugly stories of the Serbian aggression and brutality.
It will take many months determine what went wrong and why the trial lasted four years, which is a scandal.
My bones is that the well-intentioned officials of the court left too influenced by the Commission for Peace and Reconciliation of South Africa, a model touted in schools in law as the desired alternative to the justice of punishment.
In the South Africans processes the most important issue was not the future of the accused but the past of the victims.
It encouraged all victims to count its history and the accused listening.
In the case of the massacres which occurred in the twentieth century, these narratives can take decades.
Encouraging victims to speak and give after the accused the right to obstruct the process proclaiming their merits as political leader amounts to a formula for postponing indefinitely.
One lesson we have learnt from the judgments of Milosevic and Hussein is that it must not lead to trial men or women in order to end their attractiveness charismatic.
Trastornarán judgment -- especially if they can defend themselves - and used the tribunal to assert their careers.
tyrants should be judged after they have been clearly defeated.
Ironically, was an advantage for Nuremberg cuts be composed of representatives of the victorious powers.
They were a constant reminder for Goering Hess and his cronies that allies were control and the Nazis were irreversibly defeated.
The clear objective of the trial was always punish those guilty, not decide on the way in which write history.
The tragedy in cases of Milosevic and Hussein is that history does not yet had to write and was prosecuting the same story.
The resulting indecision of those who were led to procedures -- both international and national -- facilitating the fantasies of demand and return.
In the case of Hussein, fantasy still can become a reality.
The economic divide in Iraq
Those who look to Iraq see a nation divided between communities Shiites, Sunnis and Kurdish.
But the growing gap between rich and poor in Iraq is an equally crucial division, which has contributed to the continuing insurrection as sectarian fighting and opposition to the occupation led by the United States.
When Iraq was released, most people, especially the poor, began to hope that came a charismatic leader that the rescatara bitter reality of daily life.
reared fear, had no idea of how could apply democracy to their society and in what way could help human rights groups and other civic organisations to shape the future.
Very soon Iraq faced a new social division.
were those who understood how operate in a democracy, how to achieve the power and fulfil its ambitions.
Aprendieron to speak the language of democracy and in the process obtained money and influence and recruited independent organisations to defend their rights and privileges.
However, on the other side is the huge population of Iraqis, including the widows and divorced women and abandoned should take them and their children.
For these people democracy and human rights does not mean nothing.
They are ignorant, poor and ill.
They are victims of an education system which collapsed more than a decade ago and have few skills to find employment in the ruined economy in Iraq.
During Saddam's regime not made efforts to raise living standards of the poor.
I visited the extensive slums in Iraq and I found families living in homes little ceiling, which are infested of insects and slip below the doors black waters.
day and night live obscure.
These families, who do not need more food, a decent housing and the possibility of employment, the death expect hearing the terrible cries of their children who are dying of hunger.
When I met with the women who live in these houses, I flooded with questions: does democracy will housing and food?
It will avoid men hit their wives?
Do you will citizenship to our children?
Are we give the right of divorce husbands who leave us?
My answer to all these questions was "yes".
Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent home, to learn and work and will citizenship to their children and will equal to men.
But must work hard and make every effort to demand their rights.
They replied: "Saddam taught us for 35 years to be unemployed, and silent frightened.
What can we do now? "
In these areas deprived home to the majority of Iraqis, people is prey to the bitter temptations.
Many are beyond the scope of the political leaders and government.
fall easily into violence, theft and sabotage.
Poverty leads some to receive money for violence, abetted by the attractiveness of a false heroism which could not implement during the long Saddam's regime.
Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities in Iraq people becomes insensitive to kill.
Although the current conditions of Iraq many young people to violence, I am convinced that all we have to do to save them is to give them decent dwellings and jobs.
The jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives through a serious work.
We must not use jobs where working to disguise an army of unemployed.
We must give people jobs to enable them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.
By nature, each individual seeks to show that it is a person useful for their society.
But the culture that Saddam established convinced Iraqis that the only way to obtain authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.
Overcoming these ideas will take time and active economy, which means that the new Iraqi government must have a limited power that allows the private sector grow and at the same time allow widespread understanding of democracy and human rights.
Religious groups are prepared to contribute to this process.
Furthermore, we can rehabilitate technocrats who worked in the government of Saddam, so that they also have the opportunity to serve their country.
Last but not least, we must provide credit to the families to help them build a respectable life.
Above all, the government must not spare any effort to persuade the Iraqi poor of the value of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the constitution to meet their aspirations of a better life.
It will not be easy to achieve in a country in which many people believe that break the law is an act of heroism.
But we Iraqis too have learned that power should not be concentrated in a few hands and to establish justice requires fight against corruption in all its forms.
For the constitution operates as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, the poor Iraqis must learn to make this fight.
Islamic identity
Today, where volteemos, which is used Islam (and abused) as a political force.
Some Muslims used as called to act; many in the West (and elsewhere) is perceived as a "other" to contain and exclude.
As Turkey, I experiment directly both sides in this debate.
The reason that Islam seems to Western eyes of religion "other" is that West has given a systematic deinstitutionalisation of religion.
Of course, it is not religion that has disappeared from Western modern life, but what they can do religious institutions on individual behaviour.
The religion in the modern world is a much more personal experience and spiritual than ever.
However, in Islam is giving a process of de-institutionalisation of religious experience.
The politicization of Islam is replacing the authority of the religious establishment, ulema.
As in the West, the Islamic religious experience is becoming more staff.
One of the results is the interpretation of religious texts personally that Muslims are doing, including political activists, intellectuals and women.
Another is the vulgarización of religious knowledge, abusing the lessons of the Koran and out of context for supporting political purposes.
Who decides what is legitimate and what is illegal in Islam?
Who has the authority to interpret the religious texts?
Who can make a "fatwa" or declare the jihad?
Today, the activism and terrorism offer, or rather imposed, a new source of legitimacy.
Thus, are unwitting decide what and what not Islam, without the authority of religious schools and specialised training.
Indeed, Islam is currently interpreted through political actors and cultural movements and not religious institutions.
The de-institutionalisation has meant that Islam from a bond social local and national to forge imaginary links between all Muslims who feel oppressed or displaced everywhere.
In this way, Islam can unite before supporters were deeply divided: Muslims Sufis and spiritual canonized Shariat; the Shia Muslims and Sunni; the Conservative Saudi Arabia and the revolutionary Iran.
At the same time, Islam is shifting, with believers emerging from rural areas to go to the cities, including those of the West.
Many see this movement as a negative, and underline the fact that these people are uprooted socially, which leads to alienation and some terrorism.
But social mobility is also a precondition for creating a modern vision.
Of course, through migration, Muslims experiencing a sense of alienation, if not rompimiento total, their social origins.
Thus, his experience of religion is a new kind, deprived of theological, Community institutions or state.
The religious experience becomes a form of social imagination, within which rebuild a sense of belonging to Islam in new and strange environments.
It is not the distance of modern life, but proximity to what it triggers a return to the religious identity.
Indeed, the majority of radicalism arise in groups, for their experiences of mobility and movement, know the secular political thinking and Western urban life.
Desorientados in its new environment, Islam is anchor.
But that anchor work, it is necessary to release Islam from its traditional servile, passive and docile approach to modernity.
By using a veil or beard, to claim the right to have places for the sentence in the work or school and to demand special food, Muslims were clearly identified as such.
We are telling all around zealous and meticulous in their religious observance those that limit their religiosity private life.
For example, non-Muslims generally considered the veil as a sign of degradation and inferiority for the Muslim women.
However, to be a stigma, for Muslims has become a sign of its positive affirmation of Islamic identity.
Muslim women in Europe young perfectly illustrate this transformation.
The girls who take the pañoleta in the head in the French and German schools are closer in many respects (namely youth culture, fashion and the language) to their colleagues class that their mothers, without education and stay at home.
By using the pañoleta in the European public sphere, these girls are unintentionally changing the symbol and the role of Muslim women.
This trend goes beyond the pañoletas.
All the Western Muslims have a double sense of belonging, a cultural capital double.
define themselves through its religiosity, but also have acquired universal secular knowledge.
Given that have a cultural capital double, can travel with relative freedom between different activities and areas (the home, school, youth associations and places of recreation urban).
Being Muslim and Islamic is not the same.
What we are witnessing today is a shift of a Muslim identity towards an Islamic identity.
The religious Muslim is shifting from the private land to the public.
The question is whether the pursuit of identity can be met with pañoletas and a broad public acceptance of the Islamic religious practices, or whether the positive statement of Islam requires a waiver more essential of modernity.
A new era for Islamic sciences?
For some hundreds of years, when science and mathematics crossed for a period of major inventions, a region in the world was highlighted.
This veneraba teachers of these disciplines, medicine progressed quickly and the common people interested in the way it functioned nature.
It is not surprising that this region outside globally respected.
In the other half of the well-known world punished and even murdered scientists.
The mathematics were banned because they considered outside religion and later were subordinate.
The living standards were low.
The prosperous region was the Islamic Middle East, while a Europe ignorant stays in poverty.
Both regions had religious governments (historians disagree on the role and the nature of religions in this context - but science flourished in only one of them.
Now, of course, the roles of the Middle East Islamic and the West have been exchanged.
Since the Second World War, the United States have been undisputed leader on scientific issues.
Throughout this period, the brightest students have come out of their homelands attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutions.
Until recently, more than half of the graduates in the fields of mathematics, science and engineering in the United States were born abroad.
Many of these talents were after graduation, and both industry and the government took.
Meanwhile, the Islamic cultures entered a historic stage in which science liken with a Western influence and are avoided.
Even in those countries where oil revenues could promote a significant amount of research, Arab rulers do not encourage these investments, and their societies have not prospered everything that could have.
Recently, a desire to obtain a greater political respect has encouraged the Islamic nations to invest in technology. Where note in nuclear ambitions of Pakistan and Iran.
But while these weapons have political weight, scientific concepts in support are old and mundane.
It is more significant respect stems from brew ideas, that of the products of previous discoveries.
Imagine the influence generate if a Pakistani institute outside the world leader in research into cancer.
It would transform political rhetoric if researchers from Oman discovered the key to eliminate AIDS?
This is an opportunity has not been seized.
But there is another, and not just for Islamic societies.
The United States have made mistakes serious recently.
The "issues of faith" have replaced science throughout the government, starting with the president.
politicians have changed reports of researchers important when the facts contradict the official thinking.
Driven by an administration influenced by religion, educational systems are changing its approach to science "values".
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, visa are more meagre and difficult to obtain, which has decreased the flow of talent young American universities.
The important scientific organisations have protested, without achieving results.
At the same time, tax laws have been amended to make richer investors short term, which discourages long-term investments in research.
In the war in Iraq has spent half trillion dollars, approximately amount that was devoted to support all basic research in the last thousand years.
Even if the United States wars of a fundamentalist average age, clearly risk losing their global dominance in the field of research.
Japan recognised the link between the political influence and science in the 1980 s.
The main industrial Japan, Akio Morita Sony president and the political right Shintaro Ishihara uttered a number of speeches recopilaron in 1986 and published in a book entitled The Japan that Can Say (Japan that cannot say).
Esbozaban a national strategy understood that the global influence accorded by the scientific leadership.
The central idea was that military power could be obsolete if other nations inspected "food chain" of military technology.
The title of the book relates to the plan of "Japan does not say" the military influence of the United States once Japan checked military key technologies.
Building a knowledge-based economy using the oil wealth is clearly possible.
For example, Texas, as most of the states in the south of the United States, was once economically poor and was in decline.
Although had oil revenues, the flow of dollars to an economy itself increases prosperity as might think.
So Texas decided to devote their money from the oil to an educational fund.
Today this fund is roughly equal to that of the University of Harvard and is apportioned between 15 universities.
The effect has been impressive: the aerospace manufacturing have almost disappeared from California but are flourishing in Texas.
A multitude of centres and telecommunications companies have mudado Texas, even of the Canadian giant of telecommunications Nortel.
Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, Texas has one of the strongest manufacturing economies in the world.
There is no reason why one could not achieve the same result in the Middle East.
But first, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a legacy of that must be proud.
The debate in Iran on Iraq
No country in the Middle East is more pending the events of the war in Iraq that Iran.
The geographical proximity, intense and bloody history of conflict with Saddam Hussein's Iraq, religious and emotional links with the Shiite Iraq and concerns about the United States and its policies in the region are all ties that bind Iran with its neighbour Western.
Given the current tensions with America, Iran is particularly concerned about the likelihood of Americans establish permanently in neighbouring nation, as well as the US dominant role in determining the future of Iraq pos-Saddam.
To those who are outside the country may be difficult to follow the Iranian internal discussions, but these exist and are intensive, although not always visible to the public international more general.
There are three general approaches that can recognise in the present Iranian debate about Iraq pos-Saddam.
The Iranian pragmatists inevitably argue that Iran will have to cooperate with America, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in Iraq is not hostile, and should seek friendly bilateral relations.
Other considerations vital for the pragmatists are the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees who live in Iran.
These moderates think that the government of Iran should press America to achieve the extradition of members of the Organisation Mujahdin-e Khalq (MKO) that are based in Iraq, as well as the total dismantling of this group.
In exchange, the government of Iran should give its support to securing peace, stability and security in Iraq.
In short, the pragmatists limit the tradeoffs between Iran and America, keeping them focused on a programme to reflect mainly internal preoccupations of Iran.
The conservative forces Iranian majority support this position.
Another position sought a more active role and cooperative Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.
Advocates of this vision argue that Iran is in a good position to make reconstruction is easier, due to its infrastructure well-established of personal and institutional ties in Iraq.
Sooner or later, argue, the US and the international community recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
The Iranian cooperation should pay with the dismantling of the infrastructure of the MKO in Iraq, perhaps joined the Iranian commitment to increase its efforts to overcome any activity of al-Qaeda, and to expel Iran to its members.
What is most important, Iran should press for America that their cooperation will be reciprocal element the US guarantee that Iran will not be the objective of military action in the future of the US.
In short, the advocates of cooperation calling for an explicit and open negotiations: Iran's support for stability during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintaining relations of cooperation with the permanent government that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, for an improvement in regional and international position of Iran.
This vision is very popular among Iranian reformists (both inside and outside the government) and the technocratic and commercial class more international mentality.
Finally, for the Iranian radicals, the possibility of establishing relations of cooperation with the US is a pure fantasy.
They believe that America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
From the point of view of the radicals, the least that America is dictate major change in the Iranian foreign policy.
proposed by the Americans, argue, push for a change of regime in Iran.
America undertake initiatives against the acquisition of knowledge and nuclear energy by Iran, and may even try to undermine the general military capability Iranian.
These radical see the US invasion of Iraq as a reflection of the American desire to fencing to Iran.
In response, believe that Iran must defend their interests actively, forming strategic alliances with Russia and other regional powers and using the influence of Iran in Iraq to prevent a government in Baghdad emerges pro-American and antiiraní.
Radicals of all factions support this vision.
Derrocar Saddam's regime was the easy part of the Iraqi crisi.
Now comes difficult: secure peace and security, win the war against terrorism and convince Muslim masses of America has no intention of occupying Iraq, deprived of its oil and redesign the Middle East its image.
Meanwhile, it is likely to increase the opposition to the US, expressed in suicide bombings and other forms of terrorism.
Iran is designed to continue to play a regional role of first importance, because its political dynamism and their Muslim identity widely ringing in the Muslim world.
What happens in Iraq will have implications of first importance to Iran, and America is well advised to seek ways to acknowledge this fact.
American threats, or speculation about another war, inflame the flames of resentment and frustration in Iran, strengthening the most radical forces.
If America wants to avoid this outcome, must be considered limit the influence of their own radicals, recognising that American interests in Iraq benefit from greater cooperation with Iran.
The departure from Iraq
Finally has reached the point where in Iraq tode the world wants ostensibly: the departure of the country of the coalition forces.
The recent leak of a document of the British Ministry of Defence on the withdrawal of troops highlights this desire.
The only question is how satisfy.
While the forces of the Coalition to remain, it is likely that the violence increasing.
But if go, also increase, but more quickly.
Thus, the real question is how to achieve the point where Iraq has a police and army to entrust the maintenance of law and order.
We must move even closer.
Despite the value of the many Iraqis who enter the army or the police, should not surprise that some may have reasons that are not as cigars.
In northern Iraq are saldando old scores and has introduced a de facto ethnic segregation in areas such as Irbil which were traditionally various.
In other areas has introduced by force of Sharia law.
So how can Iraq create uniformed services to entrust the application of the law efficiently and impartial without considerations ethnic, religious or gender?
The traditional response is to recruit and train and instil "correct values".
But there is not enough time for that.
We need other methods.
In the absence of a deeply ingrained system of values, Iraq needs civil society organisations that make the police and army accountable.
If there is a local scrutiny and strengthening and national recognition of the value of this scrutiny, then it is likely that the majority of the members of the forces uniforms to behave appropriate - and that they can identify and punish more easily if they do not.
This might appear too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country similar to Iraq in many respects, there are groups that are working to achieve that goal.
The Partnership for Peace and Unity (CPAU) provides a model of the way in which this can be done.
In Afghanistan, as well as in Iraq, the priority of common people has been a reduction of violence.
The CPAU worked throughout the country over the past three years to establish Peace committees distrital, supported by Peace Councils satellite in peoples.
The initiative is facing a culture in which violence is so rooted once children learned arithmetic count the number of Soviet soldiers killed.
Therefore, the Committees seek that all sectors of the community -- including teachers, tribal and religious leaders, women, police, soldiers, judges and employers - work together to devise non-violent ways to resolve conflicts.
Although the supervision has not been a formal part of the role of the committees (in the future, the simple fact that the police, the army and the judiciary part of these committees the contacts with the rest of the community, provides feedback and begins to build confidence.
Some are notable results.
In a workshop, local military commander attended a couple of hours for courtesy and ended stay all week.
At the end apologized for his violent past and undertook to disarm its private army of 2,000 members.
Now visit regularly the offices of the committee.
In Iraq, projects such as the humanitarian Relay Centre in Kirkuk are beginning to fulfil a supervisory role in offering the local population, diverse ethnic, the opportunity to present their complaints and to receive aid to resolve them.
But too often, even when a court judgment, it does not apply in intimidation.
The US and British forces have already done much positive work for strengthening civil society.
We hear about workshops to enable women or the successful organisation of elections small-scale throughout the country.
But mobilising civil society is a huge challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, we need rapid and large-scale.
The military force is still needed, but so are the incentives to lay down their arms, including prospects of economic opportunities that are more lucrative that crime and extortion.
Fortunately, build capacity for civil society is cheap as important.
The Centre for humanitarian Liaison serves Kirkuk an annual cost of just 75,000 dollars.
With 10 million dollars these centres could replicate 100 times - and quite redundant.
The challenge is to commit to this approach, strengthen and give full support to the courageous people confronts the challenge of call to power.
Otherwise, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people gets the security that, after so many years of suffering, urgently needed.
Is Democracy in the Nile?
The surprising decision by the Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to propose a constitutional amendment that would have direct presidential elections and competitive can be a giant step for democracy in Egypt and the Arab world.
Western, accustomed to pluralistic democracy, may be difficult to understand the enormity of the potential change that this may mean in a country accustomed to military rule for more than 50 years.
Under the current system, the Egyptian citizens can only stand on a presidential referendum every six years and vote in favour or against the only name that appears in the card.
This explains why someone like Mubarak always received more than 90% of the votes, although it has been a indifferent participation.
In the leaders of Syria and Iraq has gone even better with this system, certainly because demanding that the names and addresses of voters showed each calce vote.
Many have argued for some time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not progress until Egypt commit fully with the process.
Egypt could not really the path of democratization without first reform its constitution -- to reduce fit for Pharoahs powers of its chairman and set limits to its period of government.
After all, Mubarak 24 years as chairman.
Therefore, the announcement that competitive presidential elections is an important first step.
The regime may mean that will use the process to their advantage, but perhaps the events are not so easy to monitor when the people begin to feel that power.
The genius of democracy already emerged from the bottle.
In any case, Egypt is not the only country in this troubled region taking the path to democracy.
Turkey, from one side of the Middle East, and Morocco on the other, quite advanced.
This time the real impetus stems from proximity and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and less Saudi Arabia.
The demonstrations unprecedented against the Syrian occupation in Lebanon after the murder of their former Prime Minister Rafiq al-Hariri, do not signs of calm.
opposition groups Egyptians have done marches more bold and other forms of civil disobedience in recent weeks.
The catalyst for their rage was the arrest of sick opposition leader Ayman Nour at the end of January.
The conduct of heavy hand of government revitalizó local "movement Kifaya" (enough), which has demanded the end of the Mubarak regime.
Suddenly, popular conception of the Egyptian passive and fearful to act does not seem to be true.
It is forming an alliance of local, regional and international forces against the tyranny of "always" of the Nile shores.
The recent wave of popular pressure seems to have shaken the regime.
Only a month ago, Mubarak desechaba the demands of constitutional reforms declaring them in vain.
But anyone who has been the combination of elements which led to change must be welcomed the initiative for the elections.
It is a first step -- but insufficient - to redraw the stalled political system in Egypt.
The Egyptians are suspicious of the symbolic reforms in the style of Tunisia, where the president Zine Abidin Bin Ali, with much time in power, created a caricature of constitutional amendment which seemed open the doors to competitive elections, and then create an electoral farce with some "opponents" chosen by it.
In previous presidential referenda Bin Ali, usually receiving 99% of the vote was 96%.
Hopefully, Mubarak taken more seriously electoral reform.
As in honesty, arrange the immediate release of Ayman Nour and take steps to end the state of emergency which deprives 24 years and that prevents the facts to be conducted presidential campaigns.
Mubarak must support a limit of not more than two consecutive periods of five years for any president.
The confidence-building measures are equally necessary and include the open and fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the state.
I announced that I intend to contest the forthcoming presidential elections as a way to open the debate on these essential reforms.
But with pleasure would return to my life of citizen once guarantee free and open elections in the autumn.
If applied seriously, these measures transform the legacy of Mubarak.
Together with the events in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine, may well open an Arab spring of freedom that should have come.
A historical choice in Egypt?
The Egyptians pass by the ballot 7 September to elect a president of ten candidates, including who has been for 24 years, Hosni Mubarak.
Although little doubt that the result will be the re-election of the latter, many are passionately following the process.
Some 6000 national observers have received training for these elections and hundreds of foreign correspondents are converging in the country this week.
Although all the formal details of a true election campaign are present, important aspects of authenticity conspicuous by their absence.
Despite the promises made in the playing field is far from equal for all.
Mubarak we continue to disproportionate assets: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly of electronic media controlled by the state and 85% of print media.
A week before the elections, some opposition candidates have not yet been able to submit an electoral announcement in the Egyptian television.
All the members of the Committee on the Elections Presidenciales have been appointed by Mubarak and the new electoral rules have removed all independent candidates.
Since the year 2000, 8 judges in Egypt must monitor and certify the election results, according to a resolution of the Supreme Court.
This was an important step towards the holding of fair elections, because Vocational Association has followed the courts enjoy quite independence, despite the attempts of the executive arrebatársela for half a century.
So the Mubarak regime has had to resort to various stratagems to neutralise the Association of the courts.
One was to widen the definition of "judiciary" to include thousands of workers loyal of the government titles of graduates in law, but not judicial experience, which leaves unarmed the real judges, if protesting boycotting their supervisory functions, the task fall again in the police in the infamous Ministry of the Interior.
Thus, in the past the Association of the courts used to say Amen, predictable results.
In the parliamentary elections in 2000, while the ruling party Mubarak was 38% of the popular vote in the districts overseen by the real judges, that percentage became nothing less than 86% where supervision flowed by the cuasijueces.
This year seems that will be very different.
In the spring judges held a national assembly and decided that unless the regime granted them full independence and the exclusive supervision of the process of vote, not supervised the coming presidential elections (or parliamentary).
On 2 September presented its final demands: to allow civil society groups observe the voting process, ending interference in the definition of legitimate judges with a view to the elections and access to the permanent presence of a judge legitimate front of each of the ballot box until it has been counted, certificate and communicated its content.
Until now, it is likely that the situation is a blind alley, because the President of the Electoral Commission has publicly stated in the Egyptian television that rejects the supervision of the electoral process by all citizens.
Another interesting innovation in the run-up to the elections is a bitter public debate on whether vote or boycott the presidential elections.
Various opposition parties have asked their members who do not participate: to protest against restrictive electoral rules which encourage Mubarak enormously.
Moreover, the Muslim Brotherhood, considered group of the strong opposition of Egypt, are urging his followers to go to vote and to do so in conscience, but not to support any politician "despotic and corrupt."
This is a clear, although implicit, repudiation of Mubarak, the only ruling in 24 years.
Thirty-four civil society organisations are preparing thousands of young Egyptians to observe the elections, despite the repeated government objections.
These groups argue that, if the regime does not propose rigging the election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process must not be a problem.
The response of the regime is that any foreign supervision is a violation of the Egyptian sovereignty and national observers are an affront to the integrity of judges.
This argument was quickly negated when the Association of the courts announced that it supported the presence of observers of civil society.
Whether Mubarak regime is frightened to the internal and external demands rising to hold free and fair elections or, quite simply, unable to refine the party of their natural tendency to fraud, the current signs are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.
Meanwhile, Egyptians are experiencing first emotion to challenge the tyranny and enjoy a new-found space for freedom.
The envy of Europe towards the dollar
The currencies can become the focus not only of commercial transactions, but diplomatic disputes and policies.
When this happens, commercial transactions are made more difficult and are subject to more uncertainty.
The politicization of the money during the interwar depression was economically devastating.
But there was more recent cases of perverse struggles of coins.
In the 1960 international monetary order became the focus of a political guerrilla warfare.
Each side was theories and explanations different about what is happening.
The Europeans (in particular, the French) complained that General Charles de Gaulle called the "exorbitant privilege" of the US dollar.
The General and its monetary guru, Jacques Rueff argued that America used the status of the dollar as the main reserve currency caused by the fixed exchange rate regime of Bretton Woods deficits and pay their military adventures abroad (at that time, Vietnam).
France was called to a currency reform end with the special role of the dollar and try to revive the gold standard, then discredited.
The Europeans began a long discussion about the benefits of monetary union, achievement that they could look to the dollar face to face.
However, from the point of view American, the international role of dollar was a trap.
Other countries could change their exchange rates and gave greater competitiveness their exports.
The US government was powerless against a yen devalued, which fed the belief that the rest of the world used the dollar to attack the manufacturing base of America.
The Nixon administration came to the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was the monetary unilateralism: a monetary expansion so radical that other countries forced to adjust their exchange rates.
These battles, long forgotten, have become suddenly very topical.
The world no longer has a fixed exchange rate regime, but the dollar remains the main reserve currency, a floating Woods Bretton species.
For the US the role of reserve of the dollar is a potential threat, while for the rest of the world is another example of the hegemonic ambitions neoimperialista of the US.
In this decade, China has taken place of Japan in the 60, maintaining its exchange rate under to stimulate growth of their exports.
Consequently, is the target of the US complaints about unfair competition and its efforts to make an adjustment of the kind of change that the Americans cease to buy toys, equipment and clothing manufacturing Chinese.
The manufacturers of America have decided that the internal Chinese clothing constitutes a threat to the American way of life.
Meanwhile, the European (especially the French) complain about the large deficits of the US and again fashionable the argument de Gaulle that the rest of the world is paying the wars of the US.
Some European suggest that Asian central banks should have more of its reserves in euros, which is an echo of the failed attempt by the general force America sell dollars and receive gold.
The 60 ended in a breakdown of the "system and an important financial turbulence, accompanied by an inflationary increases in the prices of basic products.
All were injured, and the US role in global affairs received a major blow.
If happen now, a similar collapse probably have a different effect.
The system of current floating rate is stronger and the costs of adjustments are distributed differently.
The majority of Americans do not suffer too strong decline in the dollar, as foreign goods dealers are to adjust their prices for the US market.
Asian economies are growing robustly and their central banks are accumulating titles of debt of the US.
It is possible to continue with this policy, because the alternative would be a sudden decline in competition of their export sectors in the very important American market.
This gives America more time to confront a current account deficit which, in the long term, is unsustainable.
The regions of the world economically dynamic, North America and Asia, then are linked by a pact which will ensure the continuity of the central role of the US dollar.
The Americans will accumulating debt, since the Asian want.
Breaking the pact would run counter to the interests of both parties.
This is not American unilateralism, which means working with Asia.
But for Europeans, who are excluded from the pact, this is seen as a monetary and economic unilateralism.
Meanwhile, the increase in the euro against the dollar creates major hardships for European manufacturing exporters.
However, Europe cannot do much to alleviate this situation.
In fact, it will be the main damaged by the new currency struggles.
The answers raised in the 60 (reviving the gold standard, or the invention of a common European currency) do not seem to be very useful.
Having a single currency has not provided a substantial protection.
The old version of the European response, what psychologists call "envy of the dollar", will escalate.
There will be called to the European Central Bank to extend its monetary base, as if the dollar imitate the answer to all industrial, structural and demographic problems affecting Europe.
But a time of reflection must remember that the probelmas of Europe cannot be solved by means of monetary manipulation.
We need to see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privilege of America as a way to counter the fundamental lack of power in Europe.
So the envy of the dollar came to stay, and will further as the international value of the Greens notes is falling, no appreciable adverse effects on the people who print and uses.
A epidemic of policy
The Americans, as the citizens of many other countries in the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some public servants.
A few surprises us (although some are disappointed) to be given a federal judge or diplomatic high level a candidate who pass evidence of loyalty principles that are important for the party of the chairman or the Prime Minister.
But almost everyone agrees that science, and in this, the United States are becoming a sobering example to the rest of the world.
Scientists appointments should be based on objective criteria for training, capacity and performance.
Obviously, it is legitimate question a future Secretary of Health and Human Services (SSH) on its position on abortion.
But to be evidence of political loyalty to those who have been appointed to participate in scientific advisory committees is totally out of place.
Similarly, membership in the bodies the revision of the scientific proposals for their peers (process that is fundamental for the scientific advance) certainly should be free of barriers which do not relate to the professional qualifications.
Unfortunately, the scientists in the US are increasingly finding themselves with barriers.
Last autumn the journal Science published several articles relating to this issue.
One narraba massive replacement of the members of the advisory committee of the National Centre for Environmental Health, which forms part of the Centres for Control and Disease Prevention (CDC by its initials in English), without consulting the director of the centre.
Other similar cases occurred in the Advisory Committee on Poisoning Plomo and Prevention, the Advisory Committee on Protecciones Human Research and the Advisory Committee on Test Genéticos.
The epidemic of current ideology, closing or reconstituyen with new Member consultative committees and candidates are subjected to evidence of loyalty is nothing new for some observers.
The SSH say that "a fairly common practice."
Well, it is not a common practice in the United States - or at least not used to be.
In any case, what is truly worrying is not that the Bush administration examine the candidates to see whether they are compatible with their "values".
What is most alarming is the depth that have reached the findings on ideology, which are invading areas that were once immune to this kind of manipulation.
Indeed, perhaps the most revealing the growing political epidemic was the changeover of staff of studies section of the National Institute for Health and Safety Labor, which evaluates grants to study the injuries in the workplace.
It may be that the advisory committees have been vulnerable in the past to occasional manoeuvres of this kind.
After all, who recommend guidance that politicians can or not taken into account.
But sections of study?
In October 2002, Science published an editorial signed by David Michaels and a group of colleagues.
Several were former distinguished public officials who had participated in some of the committees in question, and gave a valuable perspective on the matter, based on their personal experiences.
The article in itself was interesting, but what happened was still further.
Desencadenó an avalanche of letters of scientists relataban similar experiences.
A candidate part of the Committee of the Coordinator Research on Distrofia Muscular belonging to the National Institutes, told that one staff member of the White House the questioned.
After answer several questions about their views on various policies of the Bush administration, none of them associated with the work of the committee, asked whether the president supported the policy on embryonic stem cells.
In another letter, a distinguished professor of psychiatry and psychology narró had received a call from the White House about his nomination to participate in the National Council on Narcotics.
The person who telephoned him he told you to investigate it to "determine whether views that could prove embarrassing for the president."
According to Professor, the official of the White House he several questions and had.
One example: "It takes two to three; the president is opposed to the needle exchanges (for intravenous drug users) on moral grounds, regardless of the result."
Then, the exchange turned more chilling.
The official asked nominated if voted for Bush, and to hear that, asked: "Why do you not supported the president?"
This happens in dictatorships, not in democracies.
The aim of a scientific advisory committee is balanced and thoughtful advice for the process of political decisions.
Nothing is earned - and pierde-cuando much emphasises the result of policy.
That is that decisions about what research projects will support have always taken based on studies of peers, not political.
In fact, the applicable status for this - the Federal Act Committees Consultivos-exige specifically that the committees are balanced and that "are not unduly influenced by the authority appointed."
The Secretary of Health and the US Human Services, Tommy Thompson, and the Office of Personnel of the White House should give an example to the rest of the world.
What can very easily: complying with the law.
A murder in Moscow
It is time to put an end to the fiction of the "dictatorship law" Putin did post-comunista Russia were less anarchic.
The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and most courageous journalists in Russia, a woman who dared to explain the brutal killings by the Russian troops in Chechnya, is the final proof that President Putin did nothing more to offer a dictatorship commonplace, with the usual contempt for the law.
It is right that the world, notably Europe, this acceptance.
The Ministry of Foreign Relations of Germany is preparing a policy on Russian/German relations which will cult of indifference to the illegality of Putin in the national interest of the most powerful member of the European Union.
But the indifference becomes appeasement when encourages Putin to implement its anarchic form in the international arena, as in its current campaign to stifle the economy of Georgia.
The murder of Politkovskaya generated frightful a sense of déjà vu: as in the heyday of the KGB, people simply disappears in Putin's Russia.
The murder of Politkovskaya is the third political contours death in three weeks.
Ziganshin Enver, the main engineer BP Russia, was murdered with a firearm Irkutsk on 30 September.
Andrei Kozlov, the vicegobernador of the central bank in Russia that lideraba a campaign against financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.
The fact that the prosecutor of Russia, the general Yuri Chaika, was charge of research on the murder of Politkovskaya, as it did with the murder of Kozlov, generates expectations, as would so high level in any real democracy.
In fact, the participation of the highest level of Russia's government is almost a guarantee that never be found the murderers.
The murder of Politkovskaya is a particularly grim omen if one was a strong criticism of the chairman of Russia.
In its articles for one of the few independent newspapers that remain in Moscow, Novaya Gazeta, and in its books "Putin's Russia: Life in Failing Democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a democracy in crisis) and "Dirty War: Russian Reporter in Chechnya" (A dirty war: A Russian reportera in Chechnya), Politkovskaya wrote about the dissipation of the freedoms that the mark of identification of Putin's presidency.
As is demonstrated by the exile of the former media entrepreneurs and Vladimir Boris Gusinky Berezovsky, and the incarceration of the oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, three destinations facing the enemies of Putin: exile, prison or the grave.
I am not accusing Putin's government in the murder of Politkovskaya salary.
After all, as investigative journalist infuriated many people Putin, including, no less than the current prime minister, Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy of kidnappings extorsivos.
But even if the partners of Vladimir Putin does not have nothing to do with the murder of Politkovskaya in the lift your department in the centre of Moscow, the disregard for the president for the law led to the climate in which homicide perpetrated.
As the murder of Archbishop Thomas Beckett Cathedral of Canterbury many centuries ago, the crime was committed in clearly of the conviction that happy the king.
Given representing Politkovskaya -- the responsibility of a democratic press to question the Kremlin and its policies - the government should have ensured that nothing wrong happened.
Putin's Russia already lost 12 prestigious journalists who were murdered in the last six years.
None of these crimes has been resolved, which would not be the case if the "dictatorship law" Putin something more than a strategy of public relations.
The period of six years since Vladimir Putin came to the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals.
On the one hand, the world sees a young and educated leader promises modernize Russia, particularly in terms of align their judicial practices and compliance with international standards.
On the other hand, the president observes silent while their former colleagues in the security service in Russia FSB (the former KGB) are unsafe murdered and launch a number of causes of spying glaring against journalists, scientists and environmental activists.
Among these "neo spies" contains Grigori Pasko, the journalist expert in the arms control, Igor Sutyagin diplomatic Valentin Moiseyev, physical Valentin Danilov and others.
The supposedly civilising influence of a Western partner -- chairing the G- 8 Summit in St Petersburg, for example - seems to have gone in the intrigue of Putin's Kremlin.
Once again, exposure to Western values generated another Potemkin City; Russia presents a facade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the backdrop of cardboard govern the same arbitrary beasts.
The danger to the world is that the anarchy of Putin is being exported.
In the external close to Russia, rooting a form of diplomacy criminalized.
Looking at the attempt to Putin fraudulently to manipulate the previous presidential elections in Ukraine and the criminal charges intermittent presented against the leader of the opposition Yuliya Tymoshenko.
Let us look at the separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia that there are only thanks to the support of the Kremlin.
Looking at the way in which the Kremlin is attempting to blackmail its neighbours threatening to interrupt their energy supply.
All police knows that when ignores the criminal behaviour, criminals become more extreme.
It is time for the world to recognise Vladimir Putin for what it is: a man who is returning Russia to the shadows.
So the world today must consider the ancient maxim in Latin qui tacet consentere videtur -- the silence implies consent - and ask if it is wise consent in silence the construction that Putin energy superpower without law.
The Russian pipeline towards the empire
Gerhard Schroeder, who to less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, accepted be chairman of the company building a pipeline from Russia, through the Baltic Sea to Germany, and to Western Europe.
In many countries, Schroeder now accused of the crime of conflict of interests.
Its apparent lack of ethics grows by the fact that at this precise moment Russia is threatening to interrupt gas supplies to Ukraine if this country is not yielding to the demands of prices in the gas giant of ownership, the Kremlin Gazprom.
The strategic role of Russia is obvious: interrupt gas supplies to Ukraine also means interrupt much of the gas to Europe, because some of its large pipelines through Ukraine.
By avoiding Ukraine, Poland, and of course, the Baltic countries, the new pipeline promises greater influence the Kremlin in their quest for reposition themselves regionally.
President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of the former KGB soon do not have to worry about Western Europe when they are deciding what strong pressure on the postcommunist neighbours in Russia.
Should Europe really grant Putin this new weapon imperial?
Or worse, Russia could use this weapon against the European Union addicted to energy?
The fact that a former German Chancellor will address the company that can give Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is testimony to the dangerous complacency of Europe in Putin's neo-imperial ambitions.
Certainly, the Russian media are unaware of Europe's growing dependence on Russian energy.
Indeed, delights with it: after integrate and increase our common business of gas, write the Russians editorial page, Europe bear silence on human rights.
Putin expresses this position more oblicua its commitment to carry out the called a "independent policy".
What this means is that Russia must be "independent" of the moral concerns and human rights of Western democracies.
Perhaps some European leaders really believe that maintaining the comfortable prosperity of the Union justifies gagged in the field of human rights and other issues that annoy the Kremlin.
Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, on "commercial matters" as the expropriation of Yukos, but if the Kremlin a price to our values or criticism of the faults committed by Russia -- in, for example, Chechnya tainted blood - the European seem willing to shut up to face the possibility of a rise in energy prices, or even a blockade as Ukraine now faces.
As Putin reordena his court, subordinating the Duma to their will, the expectations of the European Union greater Europeanization of Russia should be abandoned.
Russia, Putin is building has mutated the hopes of post-Soviet freedom to a bastion of gas and oil for its new elite former KGB.
Indeed, Matthias Warnig, the chief executive of the consortium of the pipeline chairing Schroeder, friend of Putin.
The Wall Street Journal reported at the beginning of this year Warnig, who conducts the Russian branch of the Dresdner Bank, agent of the Stasi, the secret police in East Germany, and experienced Putin to end of the 1980 s when the Russian president was in East Germany as spy in the KGB.
The fact that the Russians tolerate a government of former members of the KGB, for whom the lack of compassion and intolerance dissent is the rule, reflects its depletion of the hubbub of the last twenty years.
Now the Kremlin appears to believe that what is good for Russian common is good for independent countries too: small and weak countries will have sympathy once Russia receives the tools to intimidate them, isolate them and threatening them with the possibility of an energy blockade.
As a former Head of State of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
The European Union has signed numerous agreements with Russia, including one of "common space" for freedom and justice.
The Kremlin is very good for pretend that idealism.
His control of Eastern Europe always imposed on the basis of "treaties of friendship", and Soviet invasions Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968 were "fraternal" missions.
But to see how abused Putin this area "common": the brutal treatment of the Chechens, the employer Mikhail Khodorkovsky in prison, the harassment of NGO, false accusations against the colideresa of the Orange Revolution of last year, Yuliya Tymoshenko, by Russian military prosecutors.
If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, must recognize that these values are not shared by officials collected customers of Putin's Kremlin.
The same happens when Russia as an ally in the fight against terrorism.
Is it conceivable that the land of the "red terror", with countless crimes without punishment of the Soviet era, and traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, provide a reliable aid to stop the threats to the world of Iran and North Korea?
It is more likely that the cold minds in the Kremlin simply exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase their destructive power and influence.
For decades, my region of Europe was left to the mercy of evil.
Therefore, I cannot stay silent while Europe blindly encounters towards a new appeasement.
We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, we have learned from our heritage that behind every diplomatic act of Russia hides an imperial ambition.
Western Europeans, who have rid of this heritage, should listen to our warnings.
The dependence on Russia - even if its current face is the supposedly 'charismatic "Gerhard Schroeder - only lead to the abyss.
The bullets and the votes of Iraq
When the war in Iraq began in 2003, the Bush administration was very ambitious plans: as in Germany and Japan after 1945, provided a long and peaceful occupation, during which the growing oil production ensure prosperity increasing as construyeran democratic structures.
The basis would be a liberal constitution, even post-modern, and the guarantee of 25% of the curules of parliament for women.
In Iraq today there is no peace or prosperity.
The constitution which will be put to the vote on 15 October includes this rule of 25%, but otherwise far from liberal.
The key provision (Article 2) that no law can contradict "undisputed rules of Islam" violates the basic principle of the Parliamentary sovereignty and prevent the legislation comply with international standards.
For example, the age of sexual consent cannot set above nine years, because Mohammed same had a wife of nine years.
It follows that girls nine years are also adult under criminal law and are subject to the maximum penalty, say, become another religion.
broader, the Shia can use this provision to put its ayatollahs above the elected parliament, as in Iran, because only they are entitled to determine the "rules" of Islam.
foreigners and the few liberal Iraqis worry mainly this Islamic available, but the widespread opposition of Sunnis to the constitution is designed to other provisions: the exclusion of "Party Baathists Sadamista" of political life and the government and the federalist provisions that give autonomy to the 18 provinces Iraqis and allow them to combine to form regional governments.
The rule of exclusion is a personal matter for the elite of Sunnis - including thousands of entrepreneurs, professionals, even artists - because, with a few exceptions, were all members of the Baathists.
In theory, the constitutional ban could be interpreted as applies only to future.
But in practice, are now being implemented administrative rules to exclude the so-called "Member high rank of the" Baathists of government employment and thousands have been affected.
The Sunnis perhaps accept federalist provisions if they were only applicable to the Kurds.
They know that the alternative is not a return to centralism, but the secession of the three provinces of Kurdish majority of Arbil Dahuk, and As Sulaymaniyah to form an independent Kurdistan, with its own finances, army (Pesh Merga) and oil production around Kirkuk -- the second reserves in Iraq.
The Sunnis reject the same federalism for the Shia because Arab brothers that have always accepted the Sunni government in the past and will accept -- unless they have their own government.
That is what the new constitution would, because the provinces of Shiite majority in the South -- where the majority of oil reserves in Iraq - could form their own regional government.
At the usual style of the Middle East, Sunni leaders disappointed and unhappy with the constitution now threatening to violence.
But federalism is not why Sunni Islamists who preach the supremacy fire their lethal attacks.
Its opposition is more fundamental: do not accept the democratic principle of government of the majority.
Instead seeking to restore the government of the Sunni minority.
For the Islamists, in any way the Shia deserve death, apostates.
A Shiite leader, Moqtada Sadr, also firmly opposed to federalism.
Their followers are the Shia, in its illiterate majority, poorer and violent slums in Baghdad and elsewhere whose militia "Mahdi fought against American troops in 2004, even if they were protecting the Shia attacks by Sunnis.
As very young priest who derives its authority from his father died - a populist Ayatollahs - the living ayatollahs of Iraq, who spurn their ignorance and violence, are opposed to Sadr.
Sadr cannot compete with them in terms of religious authority, which takes a position Arab nationalist against them, often recalling that the highest Shiite priest, Ayatollah Sistani, Persian, not Arab.
Similarly, reminds his followers Hakim, those who head the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq and its militia "Badr" were subsidized exiles in Iran - and many of them fought in Iran in the long and painful Iran-Iraq war -- until the Americans' brought return ".
Sadr is opposed to federalism because a Shiite regional government due to their enemies, Sistani and the Supreme Council, and he says, would fall under the Iranian influence.
To emphasise its message, Sadr sent their men to attack the Badr militia, successfully in Baghdad, where the Mahdi are numerous, but without him in Najaf, where hates Sadr by the destruction caused last year - until the Americans massacred their men.
It was bad deal with Sadr as gangster; the simple arithmetic policy now says that he will probably be the central to decide the result of the vote that will take place in October on the constitution.
To reject it and force new elections to a constituent assembly, opponents need a two-thirds majority at least three provinces.
It is likely that Sunnis only win on two provinces, but if he ordered Sadr its supporters of the slums in Baghdad to vote "no" with local Sunni, it could make gained in the capital opponents of the constitution, ensuring their defeat.
As hampón political, Sadr course is prepared to sell.
Last year sought for murder.
Now wants money, recognition as statesman and humiliation, at least implicit, Sistani and the Supreme Council.
It could receive offers and perhaps the negotiations have already begun.
But some Shia to attack with words and bullets thousands of armed supporters and think that only should provide bullets.
The collapse of the secret police
As was Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc Gyurcsany, when a confession engraved that his government was lying incited unrest, openness in government is not something that emerges easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.
Like Hungary, the post-comunista Romania has fought to increase the transparency and honesty in what once was one of the most closed societies in the world.
While fighting, the continuing secret gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
However, there was real progress towards frankness, recognised by the European Union when it gave Romania green light to join the EU at the beginning of 2007.
In addition to achieve what the EU now regarded as a "functioning market economy", there were fundamental political and legal changes, which I monitored as Minister of Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the funding of political parties until a shake-up of the judiciary.
The judicial reforms, in turn, are helping to eradicate corruption.
It gave distortions against former cabinet ministers and ministers in office, Members of Parliament, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, police and official customs, and other public servants, and directors of private companies.
Furthermore, introduced new forms standardized for the declarations of assets and financial interests of anything an official post in government, Parliament, local and public administration and the judicial system.
The new statements are more detailed in Europe and, more importantly, become public.
The progress of Romania is confirmed by a report distributed earlier this month, which shows that public access to information from the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent to that of the established democracies.
In fact, the report Transparency and silence, by the Initiative Pro-Justicia Open Society (available on www. justiceinitiative. org) indicates that, the old democracies have something to learn from the new: certain government agencies in Romania were more sensitive to the orders of information to citizens that other agencies comparable in France and Spain.
Specifically, in Romania responded to 60% of orders presented, compared to 31% in France and 24% in Spain.
Other countries that have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, where adopted laws of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after in Romania.
However, gain access to sensitive information democracies in transition is not always easy, and I can give my previous job as a lawyer of human rights for the Helsinki Committee of Romania.
Many times had to resort to the court to force a disclosure, citing the Freedom of Information Act 2001 of Romania.
For example, even when ganábamos a case which had to do with access to the records of telephone tapping authorised by the Advocate-General, the prosecutor simply unaware of the judicial order.
Presentábamos civil action against the prosecutor and judges imposed a fine for every day that information was withheld.
But newly when trap media attention was that data is made public - which detailing the amount of telephone tapping authorised in the past 10 years, against whom and for how long.
With its publication, Romania began away from its past dominated by the Securitate.
Today, within the government, I am aware that sharing information with the public sometimes difficult.
But when necessary implementing painful reforms, there is no alternative.
It could have implemented the economic and political reforms that we used an income as a member of the EU if we had not put our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in decision-making inevitably goes hand in hand with this openness.
What is more, this has become a sine qua non for democratic government in the world.
When America adopted its Freedom of Information Act in 1996, joined the exclusive company in Sweden and Finland.
Today there are almost 65 countries with this type of legislation.
In Romania, those who fought for a law of freedom of information made full use of it.
As part of the study of Pro-Justicia Initiative, who requested information from the government of Romania offered voluntarily the type of information which would have been unthinkable disseminate just a few years before.
The Romanian Ministry of Defence,, showed the amount of staff of the armed forces who died in 2003, as well as the causes of death, including 13 suicides, two shootings and two deaths in combat in Afghanistan).
Similarly, asked the court of Bucharest that informed on the amount of judges disciplined since the beginning of 2000, even the arguments for any sanctions applied.
The Court flowed the asked the Council Supreme Court, who offered a complete answer: a list of four pages of all the judges penalized, with details of the reasons and sanctions.
This type of information is both a product like a motor of the continuing reform.
It was not always easy for those in government, and there is still a critical reluctance on sensitive documents.
But, in the former Communist bloc, the benefits involving the transparency have been undeniable.
At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secrecy remains a threat to the core values of the democratic governance, and that only the constant vigilance, both in established democracies and the young, can prevent transferred its limits.
Bridging the trees life
Nobody can spend a day without using a product which come from a forest.
In greater extent than most people realize, the paper wrote, water out of our taps, the medicines sanan, wood built our homes and furniture, all originate in forests.
The forests produce fresh air that we breathe and habitats are endangered species.
We also provide recreational opportunities, increasingly important in our complex world.
About 1.5 billion of the poor who live in rural areas of the world depend on forests for basic needs as food and firewood.
However, deforestation continues.
Every year lose 14.6 million hectares (145 000 km. square) of forests, an area nearly four times the size of Switzerland.
The forestry management irresponsible, accentuated by bad regulation and application of the laws on the part of the governments, and the markets rewarded illegal logging are conspiring to the most valuable forests and threatened in the world.
Once forests begin to disappear, usually a set of environmental, social and economic woes that affect us all.
The island of Sumatra, in Indonesia, is a good example.
The companies producing pulp and role are pursuing a rampant and illegal destruction of forests containing the rich diversity of plants in the world.
It is likely that the road disappear plants still discover, as well as endangered species such as rhinoceros and the elephant Sumatra, and orangután.
When the forests of Sumatra disappear, comprehensive communities of people will find a little proper place to live and without a decent livelihood.
Moreover, the distortion of global markets caused by the trade in products produced in cheap and illegal produces disadvantages for companies which demonstrate social responsibility.
The developing countries are losing 15 billion dollars a year of tax revenue, due to illegal logging.
To make things worse, the demand for wood for tsunami reconstruction of last year is intensifying the unsustainable demand that the forests of Sumatra.
Threats similar to forests are obvious in the Amazon basin of the Congo.
The recent Ecosystem Assessment for the Millennium (EEM) of the UN shows that the forests of these and other regions of critical are frank decline due to mismanagement, and continue disappearing unless serious action is taken.
The information distributed by the government of Brazil indicates that the deforestation of forests irreplaceable of the Amazon, due to factors such as conversion to agricultural land, came to 2.6 million hectares (around 26 000 km. square) last year, taking deforested area of the Amazon total 17%.
But the battle against deforestation is not lost.
Various organisations, environmentalists and businesses concerned the forests in the world are joining forces to reverse the reforestation and improve the management of forests.
For example, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the World Bank have helped, Brazil's government to start an initiative which created over 17 million hectares (179.000 km. square) of new forest protected areas, such as national parks.
The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also motivated the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund to administer in perpetuity these areas protected.
Similarly, a summit meeting between the governments of the countries of the Basin Congo resulted an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible handling of forests.
In turn, this was an initiative of USD 53 million in the US Department of State to promote the forestry conservation of the Congo.
Since the rulers gather in 1999, 3.5 million hectares (more than 33.700 km. square) of new areas protected have been created in the Congo Basin.
However, given the effects of the Asian tsunami in December, the weight of evidence provided by the EEM and statistics on deforestation in woodland areas of key importance, our efforts must continue.
The World Bank and the WWF recently pledged to unite in an effort to help reduce the rate of global deforestation by 10% by the year 2010, and work with other institutions in the public and private sectors for the achievement of ambitious targets for forestry conservation.
Studies of the WWF show that if the forests in the world fall into a combination of uses and rates (including protected areas, commercial forests handled responsibly and boscosos recovered landscapes) can we respond to the world requirements of forest products, while preserving important social and environmental resources for the foreseeable future.
The leaders of business, governments and civil society organisations must play its part in this vision.
Are the Saudis fanatics?
The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia have many not only challenged the prospects for survival of the ruling House of Sauds, but ask if the kingdom is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.
Somehow, it seems that the Saudi society has produced a torrent of violent fanaticism that is inspired by the extreme religious orthodoxy.
The fact that 15 of the 19 hijackers of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in America were finalized Saudi long a vision of dates that sees the kingdom as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance.
In some respects, this perception is accurate, but cannot be applied to the Saudi general public.
On the contrary, it would be a serious mistake to assume that the fanatical Islamism completely defines the Saudi attitudes towards religion.
Between 2001 and 2003, part of a team made a comprehensive study of the values in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iran and Jordan.
Our results offer a remarkably nuanced picture of the Saudi attitudes.
Compared with respondents in other countries in the Middle East, the Saudis were generally less religious, and attitudes towards democracy and marriages agreed also indicate a moderate ordinary underlying.
It is clear that in the four countries religiosity is a widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of those polled states believe in God, in life after the death, and heaven and hell.
But the Saudis appear to be less religious that their fellow Muslim faith.
Sixty and two per cent of the Saudis are described as religious, in comparison with 82% of the Iranians, 85% of Jordanians and 98% of the Egyptians.
The Americans also appear to be much more religious that the Saudis, 81% of them describing as such.
Part of this variation can be explained by the differences between nations be religious.
For example, the Americans can define the religiosity in different ways that the people of the Middle East, with perhaps a minor accession to the religious beliefs that normal in Islamic countries.
This could also explain the differences between Muslim countries.
But the gap between what the Saudis defined as religiosity, on the one hand, and the definition of the Iranians, Jordanians and Egyptians, on the other, is so great that it calls into question the predominant perception that Saudi Arabia is a highly religious and conservative society.
In fact, actions speak more than words: only 28% of the Saudis said participate in the weekly religious services, in comparison with 27% of the Iranians, 44% of Jordanians, 42% of the Egyptians and 45% of Americans.
These results, although point in an opposite direction to popular perceptions about the Saudi culture, are less surprising that appear.
For the sociologists religion have argued that, in an environment religious monolithic or when religious institutions are closely linked to the state, declines the general religiosity in the public.
It makes sense to think that when the state authorities make compulsory strict codes of conduct, people tend to revolt and away from religious institutions officially punished.
So it is no surprise that the Egyptian and Jordanians, who live in countries where the state does not oblige exercise compassion, more religious that the Iranians or Saudis, who must face a local policy "virtuous" backed by the state.
Even in the marriage issue many Saudis expressed surprisingly liberal visions.
The respondents divided almost equal in the question of marriages agreed, with nearly half support the idea that marriage must be based on the consent of parents, while 48% preferred to love as the basis of marriage.
Given the ingrained segregation by gender and the dominance of the parents, this result seems reveal a strong desire for greater freedom of individual choice has traditionally been a decision which takes the family.
Finally, the Saudis are enthusiastic supporters of democracy, again contradicting the popular picture of the Saudi conservatism.
Of the Saudis respondents, 58% found democracy as the best form of government, 23% agreed, and 18% expressed opinion.
The overwhelming support for democracy in a country that does not have a history secular and nationalist seems contrary to what might be sensed.
In fact, support for democracy corresponds to a number of other liberal attitudes in Saudi Arabia.
The advocates of democracy tend to be less religious, more secular, more tolerant towards others, more critical of the performance of the public sector and to be more concerned about the western cultural invasion.
Beyond the data of the study, history has shown that liberal ideas become more popular when a monarch despotic governs people in alliance with a "establishment" religious.
At the end of the nineteenth century emerged in Ottoman Syria a strong tide liberal, in response to the religious despotism of the Sultan Abdulhamid.
At the same time, appeared in Iran a secular movement and anticlerical in favour of the constitutionalism, a reaction to the absolutist alliance between the Shahs Quajar and religious institucionalidad.
In view of the similarities between these historical precedents and current conditions in Saudi Arabia, we should not exclude the possibility of reform.
Now the data of studies also suggest that it is not surprising to see the Saudis demanding a more transparent policy and a less interventionist religion.
The European museum
At the end of the nineteenth century, Europe saw Asia basically as a source of inspiration for their artists or a source of imperial ambitions.
The Asian, saw Europe as a model of modernity, as in Japan Meiji, or a barometer of decline, as in China.
A century later, the Japanese economic miracle was transformed the image of a small part of Asia to European eyes in a place of rapid technological and industrial progress.
Now, in the early years of the 21 st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and Asia in Europe is changing dramatically, at a time when the economies of Asia are booming while the European Union is atollada in a crisis of identity and confidence.
Several prominent Asian, as the former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, today are warning to Europeans that if we continue with its present course, Europe quickly will be irrelevant to everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
A prominent Chinese businessman that divides their time between Hong Kong and London was even more specific.
In a private meeting of senior entrepreneurs and political leaders in Paris a few weeks ago, said: "You Europeans are becoming a country of the Third World, spend time discussing wrong issues -- the constitution, the benefactor, the pensions crisis, systematically, offer the wrong answers to the questions posed."
The visions that European Asia in general, and of China in particular, are more complex and vary between the lucid adaptation to a new competitor and respected and pure ideological rejection.
In May 1968, in France, students - or some of them, at least - who took to the streets for inventing a new world dreamed of the Maoist China, China in the middle of the Cultural Revolution brutal and meaningless.
Its absurd and baroque obsession was the product of ignorance of the crimes of Mao as the result of platitude in a prosperous society where unemployment virtually no.
Today, however, their heirs openly criticise the Asian capitalist model.
Yesterday, China was a northern anti-capitalist for utopians revolutionary; today has become an ultra-liberal nemesis for a new generation of utopianism reactionary - the defenders of the status quo in Europe.
The students who demonstrated in the streets of Paris recently do not want as the Chinese or Indian; reject the logic of globalisation and refuse to renounce social guarantees that cost win.
The European economic elites perceive China and India very different.
Today are fully aware that their vision post-colonial slightly nostalgic in these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
China and India became genuine competitors who deserve respect, if not simple admiration.
The quality, the costs and times of delivery in the automotive industry, are reaching the European level.
Europe retains an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but the companies world class that are emerging, particularly in India, are better able to recruit graduates from MIT and Harvard, while upholding the cost of labour low and, therefore, global competitiveness.
Unfortunately, although the European leaders recognize the Asian challenge, failed to use it as a test of reality in the irresistible process of globalisation and as a call to arms in social and economic terms.
be fair to say that European politicians, with some exceptions, as Tony Blair took to adjust its world views in accordance with the revolutionary pace of change in Asia.
Trapped between its lack of strategic vision in the long term and its obsession with the short-term interests, the political leaders of Europe largely failed win the respect of their peers Asians, unlike the European companies, which is much better to the Asian eyes.
Of course, in a continent that virtually could not bury its past and shutting the door to the ghosts nationalists, the European Union is often by the Asian as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.
But if Europe's performance continue declining, does this perception survive?
Perhaps the Asian manage to consider the European model as a political version of Venice - a place to visit with nostalgia for its past glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
The red and blue
The change of Condoleezza Rice by Colin Powell in the secretariat of State of the US shows that the recent presidential election of that country remains impact.
But understand what is the choice about America is important not only for the Americans but for the world.
The Presidential vote of this year is proof that the US democracy kicking, but that some things could improve.
Contrary to what happened in the elections in 2000, when President Bush lost popular vote and barely won the vote in the College Election, this time triumphed 3.5 million votes.
Although some democrats still embittered cannot seriously questioning the legitimacy of the victory of Bush.
The United States still very divided in red states (Republicans) and blue states (democrats).
If 100,000 votes had been different in the red Ohio, John Kerry the president (albeit with popular vote minority).
The College Election was included in the establishment of the United States to protect the small states in a federal system, but now means that political campaigns mainly focus on a dozen states where public opinion is very divided.
On a more fundamental level, choosing presidents without a popular majority of improper.
Therefore, it is time to hold a serious debate to amend the constitution in order to abolish the College Election.
Some observers also complain about rhetoric and propaganda divisive that characterized the campaign.
But this must be seen from a historical perspective.
At the time of the Fundadores Parents, newspapers were extremely partial and George Washington dismayed the harshness of the political language.
For much of its first years - not to mention the Civil War and Reconstrucciónel divided country was as now and bitter campaign rhetoric reflect closed competition.
At the same time, despite the negative propaganda on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a serious format and had a big audience.
In general, it is likely that a president with a growing economy to be re-elected.
In this respect, striking in the case of Bush was little it was majority.
Most due to the unpopularity of the war in Iraq.
Kerry tried to make war, the low rate of job creation, inadequate health care and from Bush's tax cut groups of income the central themes of its campaign, but some observers felt that was never a clear message.
Bush replied with safety concerns against terrorism and cultural populism on issues such as homosexual marriage and the right to abortion.
In the end, security and populism cultural overcame the economic populism.
The interpretation of the election has been influenced by surveys of departure asked the voters (after having voted) what mattered most them.
The majority (22%) replied that "moral values", in comparison with 20% referred to the economy and 19% mentioned terrorism.
The social conservatives interpret this as it was they who won the choice for Bush and its agenda should prevail in the next period of the President.
But a survey by Pew lifted a week after the election indicated that the category "moral values" covered a wide range of subjects in addition to the right to abortion and homosexual marriage.
In fact, polls show that 25% of the population supports homosexual marriage and 35% are in favour of legal civil unions for homosexual couples (the position advocating Kerry).
However, 37% opposed to these marriages, especially in the red centre of the country, helped to mobilise the supporters of Bush to go to vote.
A more important question is whether the US are divided irremediably.
The electoral map of soft and blue has led to jokes and cartoons in Internet on the secession of the two blue shores of the red centre of the country.
Some you call "Costopía".
But the division is not as clear.
Many countries on both sides won by little room, and if colorea map in counties and not of states, much of the country is quite morado.
Cities suburbs and rural areas is a better description than coasts centre.
Indeed, opinion polls indicate that the majority of Americans are concentrated in the moderate centre of the political spectrum and not in the two extremes.
But the political elites, as the militants of parties and members of Congress, tend to be more extremist that the public.
At the beginning seems disconcerting, because should have incentives to move to the centre rich in votes.
But many members of Congress represent constituencies, which are safe for their parties and the threat to his re-election in primary, dominated by the wings more activists and extremist parties.
This trend is reinforced by the growth of cable television, which attracts viewers through programmes controversial "infotenimiento" and bloggers Internet that enter into fierce controversy without any editorial filter.
A reform to change the borders of electoral districts in order to make them more competitive help to alleviate the problem, but few of the Congressmen in office vote to make modifications which could increase its risk of defeat.
What closed the outcome indicates that Bush won a mandate to change less than he seems to believe.
Given the difficult problems of foreign policy, fiscal and social facing, would do well to Look towards the centre instead of reconciling its conservative basis, but it is not yet clear whether outweigh the policy of beliefs or pragmatism.
How rid of the habit of oil
The Chancellor Angela Merkel became the treatment of climate change at a high priority on the agenda of Germany for their presidencies of the EU and of the G 8, starting in January.
This is a concrete proposal, sufficiently general for world leaders to consider and accept the clear enough to other governments and businesses to understand: nothing more to set a date, in the next G 8 summit, from which cars fed of oil can no longer move more in the main industrialised countries.
A decision of this nature would have a geopolitical and economic impact very positive.
The real cause of today's concerns on energy is not the collapse of world oil reserves, but rather than oil production of internal large consumers - Europe, the United States and China - fall in the moment that the growing Asian demand clog up the market.
The reserves available is increasingly concentrated in the Middle East, simply because the supply in the rest of the regions be extinguished before.
What is more, the major oil exporters are not prepared to subordinate its policies of investment to the requirements of the market.
Saudi Arabia is trying to manage its oil production independently, while Iran frightens potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and its corruption.
Iraq suffers from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia are impediments to each step.
These four countries harbouring half of oil reserves tested in the world and two-thirds of what potentially could be exported.
All this, not production costs, is the main reason of high oil prices and fights for closing oil contracts in Central Asia and Africa.
Believing that high oil prices are good because they serve the environment is ignoring some basic data in international politics.
First, in many of the poorest African and Asian, oil imports represent a significantly larger portion of national expenditure in the industrialised countries, which implies that economic growth and social development are in danger, at the same time facing new debt crisis.
The incomes of oil production hampers the reforms in the main exporting countries.
Thanks to his lubricada financial strength, regimes such as those in Venezuela and Iran ever feel less restricted by international rules.
The newcomers to the universe of nations consumers, as is the case in China, imitate the old habits of the industrial West, with its long history of overlook the abuses of human rights in order to ensure lucrative agreements with authoritarian and rich regimes in oil.
Only the political and economic heavyweights in the world, the main industrialised countries which remain, by far the largest consumers of hydrocarbons, can initiate a change to global level.
The change must begin by the transport sector, which represents more than half of the current oil consumption -- a proportion likely increase in the future.
Therefore, the G 8 countries should agree to prevent circulate all car fed oil 2025 onwards.
This decision would suggest against individual mobility, but the dissipation of a scarce resource that is more urgently needed to produce plastics.
The political leaders should not favouring any particular technology.
What is more, should offer the automotive industry incentives to develop alternative technologies which are based on fuel biomass, hydrogen and natural gas for a transitional period.
The countries leaders from a political point of view will give domestic industries, such as collateral benefit, a leading position in terms of energy technology, ensuring future markets.
Eventually, the expected significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions could bring coupled with the turning point in international policies on climate.
But also comes into play economic development: cure our "addiction" to oil you leave more oil the poorest countries, less developed and recently industrialised, at the same time bully the fall in prices and ease the geopolitical competition for energy.
From a geopolitical point of view, the benefits would be equally obvious, sharply reduce the capacity of the major oil exporters to blackmail the industrialised countries.
This could increase the power of negotiation of the international community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia seriously want to promote economic and political reform idiosyncratic.
This is a technologically advanced country and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is in a position to propose an initiative of this nature.
Merkel, which has a PhD in physical and began his political career being Environment Minister (in 1995 chairing the first conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, may have more credible in addressing this issue any of your colleagues in the EU and of the G 8.
The time has arrived a courageous leadership.
The myth of trade and aid
The trade and aid have become fashionable at international level.
Greater assistance (including the cancellation of debt) and greater access to the markets of rich countries for products from poor countries seem to be at the top of the global agenda.
Indeed, the debate today is not about what to do but how do and what so quickly.
In all this is lost clear lessons from the past five decades of economic development.
Among the most important stresses that economic development is very much in the hands of poor nations themselves.
The countries that have been successful in the recent past have gained through their own efforts.
The aid and access to the market rarely have played a critical role.
Consider a country that has free and preferential access to the markets of its large neighbour, which is also the most powerful economy in the world.
Suppose that this country can send millions of its citizens to work on the other side of the border, which receives a huge amount of investment and fully integrated international production chains.
Moreover, the country's banking system supports the willingness shown by its neighbor rich to serve as lender of last resort.
Globalization cannot be better?
Now consider a second country.
This is facing a trade embargo in the largest market in the world, does not receive foreign aid nor any kind of West assistance, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and prevent borrowing of the IMF and the World Bank.
As if these disadvantages external were not sufficiently debilitating, this economy also maintains its own high barriers to international trade (as a state trade, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions).
As the reader be guessed, real countries: Mexico and Vietnam.
Mexico shares a border of 3,000 miles with the United States, which gives not only privileged access to labour markets and goods, but also the facility to use the funds of the Treasury in the US (as was demonstrated in the crisis of the weight of 1995).
In contrast, America held a trade embargo against Vietnam until 1994, established diplomatic relations until 1995 and for years after that did not of most-favoured nation imports of that country.
Vietnam still outside the WTO.
Now consider their economic performance.
Since NAFTA was signed in December 1992, Mexico's economy has grown at a pace annual average only 1% in per capita terms.
This is not only very below rates of Asia's economic superstars; it is also a fraction of the growth of Mexico during the decades that preceded the crisis of the debt of 1982 (1.0% annual between 1960 and 1981).
However, Vietnam grew at an annual rate of 5.6% per capita between the start of its economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the US in 1995, and since then has continued to grow an accelerated pace of 4.5%.
In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction of poverty, whilst in Mexico fell real wages.
Both countries experienced marked increases in international trade and investment, but the situation is completely different in what matters most: raise living standards, especially those of the poor.
What these examples show that internal efforts succeed on anything to determine the economic fortune of a country.
All the opportunities that the US market gave to Mexico could not counteract the consequences of the errors of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the actual appreciation of the exchange rate of the weight and extend to the rest of the economy improvements in productivity reached in a limited range of activities of export.
What matters most is whether a country takes the right strategy for growth.
Without any of the benefits of Mexico, Vietnam applied a concentrated strategy to diversify its economy and improve the productive capacity of its domestic suppliers.
The wider experiences of the post-war support the conclusion that the internal policies are the most important.
South Korea taken off at the beginning of the 1960 s, not when the external aid raged, but when it was gradually withdrawn.
Taiwan was not external aid or preferential access to markets.
China and India, the two economic superstars today, have thrived largely through efforts unique of reform.
It would be tempting attribute the rare African successes - Botswana and Mauritius - to external demand for its exports (diamonds and dress, respectively), but that is only part of the story.
Obviously both countries would be considerably more poor without access to foreign markets.
But, as in other cases of successful development, what distinguishes are not the external benefits that possess, but its ability to exploit them.
Take what other countries have done with its natural resources.
The word "diamond" hardly evokes images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.
Similarly, few of the processing zones of exports rampant in the world have achieved the results that are observed in Mauritius.
Nothing absolves the rich countries of their responsibility to help.
They can make the world less cosy for corrupt dictators -- for example, sharing more financial information and not recognising the international contracts to sign.
Also, increasing the number of workers from poor countries to which permits work in rich countries and give greater room for policies aimed at growth through the relaxation of the WTO rules and conditions of the US would have a greater impact of development in the long term.
It is clear that extending the access to markets and increase aid constitute the most productive use of invaluable political capital in the North.
The development must not concentrate on trade and aid but to improve the atmosphere of policy in poor countries.
And now who is dependent?
If the great economist Argentine Raul Prebisch lived today, certainly ask whether the world is the reverse.
Its theory of "dependence", which had a great influence, argued that if the poor countries are too dependent on exports of primary products never reach the necessary industrial depth to sustain an accelerated growth.
empantanarían in a cycle of falling prices of raw materials at global level and involve more and lower income.
The response of favorite policy Prebisch, protectionism, was disastrous for the many African and Latin American countries that he was.
But the fact is that for many years, seemed Prebisch have predicted rightly long-run trends in the price of primary products.
The implacable progress in agriculture and the extraction of resources pressured down the prices of raw materials, particularly during the 1980 s and 1990 s.
With few exceptions, the countries that concentrated on the export of these products had very poor performance, while many Asian countries with few resources overtaken.
However, today, as Asian giants, India and China, unite the global economy, oil prices, gold, wheat and almost all other raw materials are rising explosive.
While there will always be cycles -- for example, oil prices probably fall before the return to start up -- the long-term trend of many primary products will clearly upward for some time.
What many trade negotiators and other person responsible for policy-making seem not having recognised, although Prebisch would have realised immediately, is that these dramatic events have major implications for the overall balance of power.
Indeed, perhaps another aspect of economic globalisation will raise greater challenges to world leaders in the coming decades.
There are many questions.
Are prepared rich countries today for an era of co-dependence in which they need raw materials and the developing countries need industrial imports and technology?
Are prepared for the inevitable flow of power and influence towards the raw materials producers as much richer?
How will face the two superpowers of the world, China and the United States, to the fact that there are regions exporting primary products in Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia are full of nation states poorly trained?
Some autoconsagrados prophets describe the problem as one of finite natural resources in which the world is falling without criticism raw materials at an alarming rate.
Today, many support the theory of the "Hubbert peak" on the oil production, which holds that we have reached the upper limits of production capacity, the wells are drying and worsen from now on.
However, as the prominent historian of oil, They Yergin, the prophets of the misfortune have already stated at least four times that the world is falling without oil.
Each time, the threat evaporated to radical improvements in technology.
At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil implied dredging with mules.
Today nobody is astonished to drill 3,000 metres under the seabed.
There have been similar improvement in all sectors of the mining of metals and agriculture.
No, the world is not about to leave raw materials.
What happens, however, is that the integration of 2.5 billion people (China and India) into the global economy is producing a change in the demand that security exert much more pressure upwards on the prices of raw materials that any technological advance can offset.
So, at least for the next 50 to 75 years, and perhaps until human start mining operations on Mars at some time in the centuries to come, the prices of many natural resources reach.
Is destabilizes world politics by the rebalancing of the global economic power arising from this?
The World War I, erupted in part by the German concern that the other colonial powers had a very high proportion of the global supply of oil and raw materials.
Similarly, in the Second World War Japan feared by the stability of its foreign cull of oil and other natural resources.
There similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources (and where even the shortage of water is a probema) and the West?
Thankfully, this does not seem likely at the moment, especially given the sober and pragmatic approach to the Chinese leaders in terms of their problems of resources.
The Chinese are looking regions such as Africa in the hope of finding stable trading partners.
We share the political proselytising by the Americans, who do not just want to trade with the exporters of raw materials, but also turn them.
Moreover, the American leaders who speak of America is self-sufficient in its energy cull.
But that is essentially a joke: complacent themselves, perhaps, but self-sufficient, never.
It is understandable that much of the Arab world consider the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the strategy of the United States to ensure a stable supply of energy.
If they are right, we can only hope that America has a plan B.
Meanwhile, the prices of raw materials will amounting and oil exporters are responsible for over America's huge trade deficit.
Perhaps the American strategy of today duty him countries exporters of raw materials that they depend on America is happy.
That is something that Prebisch would never have anticipated.
The option of hard line in Iran
It is likely that the choice of the mayor of hard line in Tehran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next president of Iran worsen relations with the West and the international isolation of the country.
However, in domestic terms, it is likely that the Islamic regime would be better if we had a more moderate result.
Clearly, Ahmadinejad has a real support base.
But that has been presented as a populist, referred to help the poor, condemned the operation of the government and almost acted as opposition candidate is irrelevant: it was elected of the regime and received official aid even against other candidates hardliners.
The regime played your letters brilliantly.
It turned Hashemi Rafsanjani, slightly more pragmatic and did not agree with certain existing policies, in the "system and its own man in the rebel.
Thus, the government used the feelings against the system for revitalising command.
The fact that the last President, Muhammad Khatami, support the reformist movement -- albeit timid and ultimately reached nothing - simply underlines the absolute rulers voltearon the political situation.
Ahmadinejad is a representative of the activists younger of the revolution against the Shah any more than a quarter of a century ago.
He was directly involved in the catch of American hostages in Iran, although what degree discussion.
The most worrying of all is that it is close to the two main groups which represent the most extreme elements of Iran: the Guard Corps Revolutionary Islamic and Basij organisation.
The first is a parallel army in favour of the regime; the second is an organisation that intimidates opponents and those seeking a more open society.
However, the concerns that an even more radical leadership has taken the lead in Iran mitigate by two factors.
Firstly, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will concentrate on internal affairs, to try to - with is not clear what success - improve the standards of living of the Iranian poorer.
Secondly, the same group that has had the control since the revolution continue dealing with the ideological and foreign policy.
The President has fewer powers of what seems, in particular overshadowed by the Supreme Guide, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
However, the choice of Ahmadinejad abundantly clarifies the challenge that Iran to western policy and the stability of the Middle East.
Firstly, sends a signal to the most extreme elements of Iran and the terrorists customers in the country -- Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Palestine and few various groups operating in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other Arab countries -- that green light for launching attacks.
It is likely that pose Iran support anything.
Towards outside Iran has often been relatively cautious, but covert level has been the most important sponsor of terrorism at world level.
Sometimes certain Iranian officials may have acted organise and coordinate specific operations feel that they have more freedom to do so.
Moreover, Ahmadinejad openly supports the programme of Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
The majority of the Iranian politicians -- at least those that the government allows them to operate openly - support the programme, but lean toward a discreet and more cautious approach.
Rafsanjani, for example, preferred to build better economic relations with the West progress in the nuclear front.
If Ahmadinejad is chairman of a nuclear Iran is more likely to use weapons adventurous.
That is not to say that the detonaría but rather than used for diplomatic blackmail, taking threats in crisis.
Since the Iraqi leaders proclaim daily its desire to wipe Israel from the map and to combat the US (Ahmadinejad rode roughshod over a photograph of the American flag when travelling to vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.
Finally, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will be more determined to subvert the stability of Iraq and his victory encourage officials and radical Iranian extremists who are in this country.
Iran is already sending many players to Iraq and supporting clients who want to turn it into a clone.
The Iraqis, including the Shia Muslims - which practise the same version of Islam that the Iranians - generally reject this interference.
It is likely that a more militant position of Iran increased friction with Iraq and generate more violence anti-American in that place.
In short, the election result of Iran is dangerous, but what is so destabilising depend on the actions of Ahmadinejad and the degree of power Khamenei.
Moreover, dealing with Iran as openly extremist - radical even for hard-line patterns of the regime - will be a challenge not only for the US, but also for Europe.
Intentarán European countries pretend that the militant rhetoric and the provocation of Ahmadinejad do not matter and can find a diplomatic solution to Irans nuclear ambitions?
With Rafsanjani would have been easy to maintain a genuine agreement or a farce of cooperation.
But Ahmadinejad will need a high level of appeasement that even the slightest diplomatic process can continue.
Some Iranian reformists and exiles welcome the choice of Ahmadinejad, because claim that his administration will see the real face of the regime and erase the Western hope of reaching an agreement.
However, it can also represent the success of the regime in co-opt dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.
Whatever the outcome, for the West the triumph of Ahmadinejad means that everything to do with Iran will claentar even more.
Knocking off the poor to give the rich
President Bush seems determined to ruin the US budget for the coming years.
When Bush took office, it was possible to envisage a future budget surpluses virtually uninterrupted.
Today, through a combination of tax cuts driven by the Republicans, an economy in slowdown, the desinfle of the bubble of the stock market and a massive increase in defence expenditure, the tax horizon is dominated by enormous deficits.
They come worse, because the Bush Administration and the Congress dominated by the Republicans are preparing a tax deepening chaos.
The damage that will probably weaken the US and add instability in the world economy.
Traditionally, America's Republican Party preferred balanced budgets.
This changed with the administration Reagan, when the conservative Republican favored the tax cuts, even at the expense of the emergence of large budget deficits.
The President Reagan told the American people that could enjoy tax cuts, a military increase and the continuation of his pet expenditure programmes, at the same time.
It is not surprising that the result was a number of vast budget deficits that took years repair.
Both President George Bush Senior such as Bill Clinton had to raise taxes to fix the chaos of the Reagan.
These tax hikes probably contributed to the defeat of President Bush Senior to Bill Clinton in 1992.
Yet Clinton, bravely decided, complete the process of restoring fiscal balance, in part to protect the financing of long-term of retirement scheme of Social Security.
When Clinton left office in the year 2000, the budgetary situation was the best in decades.
Then came the President George Bush Jr again to play the role that Reagan played: large tax cuts, a huge increase in military spending and a continuation or even expansion of popular spending programmes.
The result was predictable.
In January 2001, is projected that the budgetary cumulative result for the years 2002-2011 have a surplus of $5.6 trillion dollars.
In mid- 2002, surpluses planned had been extinguished.
In view of the change in economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, we could expect that the Bush Administration and the Congress dominated by the Republicans were cautious in proposing new tax cuts.
However, its top priority is to apply new tax exemptions mainly benefit the rich.
At the same time, the Administration is proposing large increases in military spending.
With the presidential election of November 2004 on the horizon, we can be sure that no significant cuts in spending programmes non-military.
This is that it appears that the mass budget deficits came to stay.
If the internal expenditure simply remains constant as a fraction of national income, the budgetary cumulative result for the next ten years will be a combined deficit of $1.5 trillion.
But this figure optimistic, because probably not adequately includes the costs of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax cuts, or the risks of higher interest rates in the coming years.
Why the Republicans worry so little this chaos?
Some Republicans matters more lowering taxes in the rich almost any other.
Others believe that deficits forced to make significant expenditure cuts internal government, thus reducing the size of the state, which is its most dear.
The problem with this last point of view is that the majority of those who pay taxes like internal programmes and not support very easily the implementation of important expenditure cuts.
A more worrying question is why the Americans vote for such policies, when should know that only give rise problems.
One answer is that many voters do not see the imminent budgetary problems.
A better answer is that the majority of Americans did not vote for these policies.
The participation in the election in 2002 was only 40%, of which only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of voters admissible.
Of course, the perspectives must not be so black.
We can prevent war in Iraq.
The tax cuts proposals can reject or leave.
But predict large budget deficits in the coming years and a growing sense of unease inside and outside the US about their macroeconomic situation.
Foreign investors can decide to finance the US budget and current account deficits in favorable terms.
The dollar is weakening and can be increased concerns about inflation.
All this can make policymakers US less confidence and less flexible in their responses to economic shocks.
It is likely that the poor, inside and outside America, suffer the worst, when President Bush and Congress told the American people and the world that, due to the large budget deficits, there is no money to deal with the problems of poverty, health and education.
Unless the Americans ordinary aware of these tax risks, the rich will be another gift of billions of dollars, while the country and the world suffer the sad consequences for many years to come.
Lessons of America's fiscal imprudence
George W. Bush has done more to ruin of the economic policy of America than any other president of the US history, outperforming even his mentor, Ronald Reagan.
In just three years in power, has destroyed a fragile political consensus for whose construction was a decade, and that could take another decade rebuild.
In doing so, Bush has put at risk social stability and economic strength of long-term in the United States.
Since the budgetary long-term challenges that America is considering such poor way are not exclusive, the mistakes of the US fiscal provide important lessons for other countries.
The main problem with fiscal policy is that politicians can be popular temporarily to reduce taxes and increase public expenditure, causing a huge public debt and leaving payment for the future.
This trick can take a few years, but sooner than later the budgetary défitits and the growing public debt force painful retrograde steps in this policy.
However, a cynical political can achieve his re-election and perhaps be withdrawn when exploits the crisis.
One could imagine that, after hundreds of similar episodes of fiscal irresponsibility throughout the world in the past decades, the voters would be allergic to tricks such as these.
Yet Bush is doing again, buying popularity to distribute massive tax reductions, while simultaneously increased military spending and even raises the spending of education and health.
The result is an equivalent budget deficits to more than 5% of GDP.
What is worse is that the budgetary prospects of long-term United States were already problematic before Bush began irresponsible policies.
America's population is ageing, so that there will be a radical increase in the costs of public health and pension systems.
A careful calculation shows that it is likely that the future income under policies favoured by Bush are insufficient in several tens of trillions of dollars to finance the costs of public pensions, health care and other fiscal expenditure expected by the public.
At some point in the future will be necessary, therefore, radically increase the collection of taxes, drastically reducing public expenditure, or both, to correct the actions of Bush.
So why supports the public these policies?
Because understands or little concerned about these long-term consequences, even if eventually end up damaging the majority of Americans.
For assumptions, the richest taxpayers are happy because received the main part of the tax cuts.
Incredibly, 5% richest of American taxpayers received almost half of the tax exemptions, and clearly these rich taxpayers expect the other 95% (the middle class and the poor) bear the greater part of the spending cuts and increases in taxes to be applied in the future.
Meanwhile, Bush has convinced many poor voters and middle class that must also be happy, without say that they will have to pay their small tax cuts with much greater cuts in future government services, if the policies of his administration persist in the long term.
If the Americans were political memory, understand that were already in this Russian mountains "tax once in the past 20 years.
Ronald Reagan also came to power promising large tax cuts and significant increases in military spending.
The result was a huge budget deficit in the mid- 1980.
The tax cuts made hugely popular to Reagan and helped to win re-election in 1984.
It took more than a decade (starting with the second period of Reagan, and following the periods of George Bush Senior and Bill Clinton) to return to a budget surplus.
Of course, this meant approve new tax increases, which cost re-election George Bush Senior and led to the polarised political environment of the 1990 s.
It is almost certain that history will be repeated.
Some right-wing ideologists of the Bush administration believe that the current fiscal deficits finally forced to drastically reduce social spending of government.
They want dismantle programmes such as Social Security and Medicare.
But the American public strongly supports these social programmes.
So the right-wing strategy to reduce taxes first to force cuts in social programmes after not work, and eventually will need to raise taxes.
Other in the Bush Administration argue that the tax cuts are important to get America of the recession.
This argument is wrong.
The US economy could have recovered without the tax cuts, and perhaps even more solid.
In any case, it is a great mistake to base tax policies in the long-term business cycle of short term.
There are two vital lessons for other countries.
The first is that the US increasing budget deficits sooner or later restricted international power of the United States.
The Americans supported the war in Iraq only because it had to pay for it with an increase in taxes.
When put before the choice of choosing between adventures abroad and more taxes, is much less likely to support expensive military operations abroad.
In fact, America deeply divided when the public should face the fiscal mess left by Bush.
The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets taking into account the tax costs of an ageing population.
The budgetary conditions of long-term are seldom unambiguous for taxpayers or parliament.
We should ask the governments to submit budgetary assessments of long-term with its annual budget proposals, in order to reduce the trend of political manipulation of short-term in the budget.
America can serve as an early warning for other countries.
The White House should give the same warning that magicians viewers: 'Do not try in their homes. "
The policy on the stock market
Many economic and financial analysts complain that the governments of the emerging countries often too manipulate their stock markets and that they are more political economic.
The tacit course, pristine some force of economic nature runs the stock markets in advanced countries, and that, therefore, to predict its performance as predict the growth of the trees.
That description of stock markets of the emerging countries is wrong, but only partial, because it also applies to the markets of the advanced countries.
Indeed, the best analysts know that predict the performance of the stock market of any country means largely predict how the government wants investors thrive in the political environment of the moment.
Take the stock market in the United States, the largest in the world.
The general perception is that the government in peace companies and dividends resulting from investing in the stock market reflect the fundamental forces of a robust capitalist economy.
This is one of the reasons why the US are a magnet for investors throughout the world.
But the dividends so attractive stock markets in the US reflect a sensitive political balance.
In particular, the tax rates affecting actions have varied as changing the political pressures.
For example, during the Second World War, political support for the large fortunes fell and the government increased considerably taxation of capital gains, dividends and high incomes in general.
When the Second World War produced a solid recovery of the Great Depression of the 1930 s, President Roosevelt and the congress added a tax on the ill-gotten gains to ensure that shareholders not benefited too.
In contrast, in 1980, when there was no war but the stock market was weak, American voters elected Ronald Reagan, a man that many saw too right-wing for president.
The asked - and obtuvo-recortes tax on the profits of capital, dividends and membership.
The political interference in the stock market is not limited to tax on the profits of capital, dividends and membership.
Taxes on ownership, consumption, imports and sales - all of which corporations pay directly or indirectamente-pueden an extended impact on corporate profits and, therefore, on the stock market.
It is no coincidence that wherever flourish stock markets, governments careful that taxes do not destroy the net corporate profits.
Indeed, the policy in the stock markets does not end with taxes.
On the contrary, almost any activity of the government has an impact on corporate profits and, in turn, on the stock market.
After the stock market collapsed 1929, the US government suspended anti-trust activities, to enable companies deriving monopoly raising its value.
This policy delayed the recovery of the huge unemployment, but even this was able to monitor the political forces prepared in favour of support for the stock market.
Similarly, one of the most important things that President Reagan was destroyed much of the power that left the Americans unions, which compete for its share of corporate profits.
The defeat inflicted Reagan to the air controllers' strike in 1981 was a parteaguas for the US trade union movement - and for the stock market, which began its dramatic upward trend in 1982.
The US government has been particularly aggressive in supporting the stock market from the climax of the bubble of the prices of actions in 2000, especially cutting interest rates repeatedly.
Of course, this policy was justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not to support the stock market.
But the transpire that one of the key factors that weighed on the economy was the price to the bottom of the actions is a telling example of the importance of the stock market in the US.
In fact, the response of the authorities do not simply monetary stimulus.
The National Auditors's accession and the US Product show that effective rate to corporate profits (the percentage of profits which the government is paid to road taxes) came to a ceiling of 33.7% in the first quarter of 2000 - the heyday of the stock market and the economy general-y fell to 20.2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market was under.
Much of this decline reflects the explicit measures of a fiscal support approved the congress, as well as the perception among corporations in the economic and political environment current may be more aggressive in tax evasion.
Moreover, after the stock market crash, the maximum tax on the dividends of the actions fell from 35% to 15%, which gave a substantial advantage investors long-term and reinforced the composed of reinvest net dividends.
Again, this cut taxation justified in terms of stimulate the economy, which, of course, almost any measure aimed at supporting the stock market.
But what determines that credible justification is the balance of political forces.
It could be said that, over the past 200 years, the same variables, including the hostility towards high taxes and a weak trade union movement, operated in the US - and therefore expect to continue operating in the future, producing high dividends in the stock market and attract huge inflows of foreign investment.
Those who think that investments in the stock market of the US remain a strong growth trend for decades could be right.
But we need to know what is already predicting.
Essentially, not only are making predictions about economy, but also on the policies - and perhaps the values culturales-que shape the strategies and economic performance.
The global housing
The homes are the most local investments, rooted in a particular place as a tree, and, therefore, growing or marchitando in response to local economic conditions.
Everyone is as a whirlwind by our television screens, but the market in our homes, formed almost in their entirety by local fans, still planted there, in our own back yard.
Soon, however, all this could change.
a month, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (WEC), in cooperation with my company, MacroMarkets and Fiserv and Standard & Poor's launch of future contracts and options on property price in ten cities of the United States.
Contracts will recall on the Indices Inmobiliarios Prices for S & P/Case-Shiller, which was generated from the academic work that my colleague, Karl Case and I began almost twenty years ago.
For many years, we have been campaigning for the future on housing, but, until now, no bag wanted to use this type of rates to create a futures market.
The futures markets on home prices allow them to worldwide investors to invest in properties indirectly in the United States, buying interests through these markets.
A investor in Paris, Rio or Tokyo can invest in homes occupied by their owners in New York, Angeles and Vegas.
A fundamental principle of financial theory - "diversification" or "distributing risk" -- suggests that the interest in the new contracts will be high.
The individuals and businesses in New York, for example, are sobreexpuestos their local property risks, so that should reduce this risk selling future on home prices in New York.
People in Tokyo assume part of this risk buying future on home prices in New York if the price is appropriate.
New Yorkers will be living in their own homes, but now have distributed the risk of investment at world level.
There has tried a market of future genuine one-person households since 1991, when the Future Stock Exchange and Options in London (today is part of Euronext liffe) failed in its attempt to launch a similar market in Britain.
This attempt never created much volume of transactions.
The stock exchange organised a party and no wine.
The British markets of investment in margins (spread-betting), and some retail markets on-line, never represented.
Will different this time?
Without doubt, launch a new market is always an uncertain proposal: people want to go to Christmas only if it is many people; if there is nobody, do not want to go.
Similarly, the markets without many investors, cannot be implemented sufficient operations as to generate the necessary refunds attract.
As usually happens with big celebrations, can be a mystery how the new markets prompted substantial, but we know that from time to time, happens.
The initial indicators suggest a growing interest in operations with future on home prices, particularly because the fact that talk of property "bubble" stresses the importance of diversifying the risk.
After the announcement of the WEC, one of their competitors, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, said that plans create future contracts and options in the main American regions, which will be based on price estate means published by the National Association of Raíces Partners.
However, beyond the strong public interest in investing in housing and dispensed the risks that this entails, must be solved another critical issue for the futures markets success: must disclose prices and investors should understand what these prices mean.
I believe that there are very good chance that many of these futures markets pronostiquen soon price drops substantial in some American cities in the coming year.
They will be traders call "backwardation" (invested market): the future market price today is less than the current price of housing.
Perhaps this phenomenon not be the first day on which the future marketed on housing, but there are good likely to happen in a matter of months.
Perhaps we need "backwardation" in some of these markets if it is to fulfil its role.
We know that there was a gigantic building explosion in many of these cities (and in other parts of the world) in recent years.
It is likely that international investors do not want to invest in these cities unless expectations of a fall in prices are based on the futures markets, as you know the Tokyo people from their own experience dire.
But if the phenomenon of "backwardation" is strong enough to investors who think that the American property market is still a fall can expect a good return of future on home prices, because they are already obtaining a lower price on the market of future.
However, it will take some adjustments to the New Yorkers that want to protect their own property investment selling future contracts which have a fall in prices incorporated.
They will have to get used to the idea that the market expects the fall and can only be protected by the margin of possible low prices that future exceed this expectation.
this type of adjustments in our way of thinking may occur when really see market prices of future.
Until now, the future course of estate prices was simply a question of various opinions.
When the markets create an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we are better prepared to control the risks facing these cities and stabilize their economies - and our own lives.
What news moving markets?
The stock markets in much of the world have been marked cumulative falls from approximately 10 May, general, low occurred in a period of two weeks until around 23 May, but prices continued to plummet on average since then.
The problems in the stock markets in the world lead to problems for the world economy?
Let us look at the more declines.
Of the rates of the major countries, the most important crash occurred in India, where stock prices fell 16,9% between 10 and 22 May.
The debacle in the other side of the globe was almost as important and the peaks and feuds occurred a day or two after India: in Argentina, stock prices fell the 16.10%; in Brazil, FF 14.7%, and in Mexico, 13.8%.
The European markets also suffered large losses.
In Sweden, stock prices fell 15.2% between 9 and 22 May; approximately the same period, prices fell the 9.7% in Germany, 9.4% in France and Britain and the 9.3% in Italy.
Similarly, in Asia, stock prices fell the 11.5% in Korea, 9.3% in Hong Kong and 8% in Japan, approximately the same period.
Many analysts try to link these facts with what happened in the United States.
But share prices fell barely 5.2% between 9 and 24 May.
Nor China seems to be behind the overall drop, because share prices there, increased during this period.
The current explanation of economists revolves around monetary policy.
Immediately after the great fear of deflation of 2003, central banks in the world fell interest rates, which unleashed a speculative outbreak in the stock market and property.
But now, according to this view, interest rates rising are beginning to feel, which bodes future drops in asset prices.
This argument, has an important share of truth.
The US Federal Reserve increased the rates 10 May and its president, Ben Bernanke, indicated that it may have other charges hikes in the future.
On 17 May revealed discouraging data on inflation in the United States, which suggests that file in future monetary tightening.
economists like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is happening.
But, in doing so, often exaggerate the role of the central banks.
In fact, the increase in the rate in the United States was only one in a number of hikes charges - the sixteenth succession.
No other important central bank increased the rates after falls started of stock markets between May and 7-8 June, when did several (the European Central Bank, India, South Korea, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey).
Another factor is the price of oil, which increased 24% between 22 March and 2 May, characterising records all the time.
Without doubt, this was an important fact that may affect the stock markets throughout the world.
The increases in the price of oil were virtually responsible for all economic downturns since the Second World War.
Still, increases in the price of oil do not correspond with the period in mid-May in which the rates of the securities markets more badly fell.
Saying that increases in the price of oil caused falls in the stock markets presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.
But the stock markets are not very logical, and could have delayed response to the shocks of the price of oil.
As with any other price in the financial markets, rises draws attention.
When oil prices rise quickly, people look at the news linked to oil prices and talk about oil prices, thereby creating greater sensitivity to these reports.
The crisis in the Middle East is linked to oil prices and pervaded the news in May.
The increases in the price of oil magnified possibly in the minds of investors doom signals and the strong language used by various political figures.
On 8 May, in response to the inflammatory statement by the Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the deputy Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, said that "the president of Iran should remember that Iran can wiped out."
Similarly, almost at the beginning of the collapse of the stock markets in May, Ahmadinejad visited Indonesia, the most populous country in the world with a Muslim majority, and on 13 May the daily published students in two of the most prestigious universities in the country had ovacionado standing.
This story might have been interpreted as proof that the bluster of Ahmadinejad on the nuclear issue was redituando politically, fueling the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East could result in oil prices even higher.
These news is too much more remote from the stock market that monetary policy.
But react how the public, together with the recent increases in the price of oil, may respond largely by the change in market psychology.
The attitudes towards the risk change all the time, and episodes such as statements of Ahmedinejad and Peres can rush this kind of change.
In this way, while these things happen difficult ways to quantify, perhaps analysts should pay equal attention to the words of Ahmadinejad than Bernanke when trying to understand the direction taken stock markets in the world.
economists may not like concentrate on public opinion and how interacts with changes in prices, the news of the world and the speculative dynamic.
After all, it means that the economic developments are less predictable (and economists, less omniscient) to them like to think.
But this approach in intuition.
What happens in the minds of investors?
Ahmadinejad is charismatic; Bernanke, not.
Ahmadinejad is embarking on an adventure; Bernanke.
And, perhaps most importantly, Ahmadinejad is a destabilising influence; Bernanke, not.
In reality, whatever their fundamental cause, falls in mid-May in stock prices throughout the world indicate a market psychology unstable.
It beggars belief that were only associated with views on a possible monetary policy and not more important issues and deeper, such as energy and political tension, which underpin the performance of the global economy.
Why should pay more for fairness?
Marks & Spencer, a chain of supermarkets and clothing 400 shops throughout Britain, recently announced that it is turning its branch of coffee and tea, with a total of 38 lines, Fairtrade a symbol of marketing that represents a "ethical production."
The chain only sells Fairtrade tea and coffee in its 200 cafeterias Café It revives.
It is encouraging the purchase of shirts and other products produced with Fairtrade cotton.
The announcement occurred during "Fairtrade Fortnight", the promotion of two weeks of Fairtrade products which included touring where farmers in developing countries had the British Fairtrade attending their communities.
The movement towards a more ethical consumption made significant progress in the United States, because consumers tilts, increasingly, organic food produced locally and eggs from hens that are not locked in cages.
In Britain, a survey found that half of the people who are showed the symbol Fairtrade recognised and understood that it refers to products which represent better conditions for farmers in the Third World.
There is no comparable research in the United States, but from related data and discussions with my own pupils, reveals that the figure would be much less.
The traders seeking certification Fairtrade must pay the producers a price to cover the costs of a sustainable production and offers a salary which allows them to live.
For example, the minimum price for coffee is $1.26 by 450 grams, no matter how much may have fallen the market price.
If the market price rises above this figure, the price of Fairtrade increase to continue costing more five cents per 450 grammes.
small farmers, for its part, required organised cooperatives or other groups to allow democratic participation.
The plantations and factories can use the label Fairtrade if they pay their employees decent salaries, if comply with the standards of health, safety and the environment, if they can organise unions or other forms of workers associations, if offer a decent housing workers who do not live in its own house and if not use child labour or forced labour.
Not everyone agrees with Fairtrade.
Brink Lindsey, the director of the Centre for Studies of Commercial Policies promercadista Institute Cato, believes that the campaign of coffee Fairtrade is "a deadlock well-intentioned."
With some justification, argues that the real cause of the fall in coffee prices was not the monopolising of multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Vietnam and Brazil, combined with new techniques that cultivate coffee with less workforce and, therefore, with lower costs.
According to the opinion of Lindsey, if we want to help coffee growers, we should encourage them to leave coffee and produce more profitable crops - and here, rightly points out, trade barriers and subsidies from rich countries as obstacles that must be dismantled - or products of greater value, as special cafes, higher prices.
What is curious about the argument of Lindsey, however, is that it could be said that the campaign of coffee Fairtrade is doing exactly what he recommends - encourages coffee growers to produce a special coffee with a higher value.
Economists pro-market not object corporations blatantly make use gobbledy-gook to promote their products.
If people want to pay USD 48 450 grams of coffee Blue Mountain Jamaica because that is what James Bond prefers, economists not object that the market is distorted.
So why be critical when consumers choose pay $12 450 grams of coffee, know, was cultivated without toxic chemical substances, under trees that encourage the survival of birds, farmers who can afford to nurture and educate their children?
Economists could respond that, if you want to help people to feeding and educate their children, can pay $10 450 grams of coffee not Fairtrade but the same taste and give USD 2 which saves a charitable entity food and education to the poor boys.
It is a possible strategy, but Fairtrade has its advantages.
The farmers know that they have to offer a product whether consumers, both for its flavour and for the way in which grown.
If their product is sold, can take pride in having produced something which seeks people throughout the world.
From the perspective of the growers, it is preferable to receive a bonus to sell a product Fairtrade to receive a gift of charity which receive anyway, worked or not, and whatever the quality of what they produce.
Paying more by a label Fairtrade is no more "anti-market" to pay more for a label Gucci, and reflects better ethical priorities.
Fairtrade is not a government subsidy.
Their success depends on the demand of the market, not the political lobby.
Fortunately, in Europe, this demand for market is growing rapidly.
It is hoped that time soon similar levels in the developed world, and where people can choose what its discretionary expenditure.
Marranos, the US and democracy calves
In the midst of all the headlines which spoke of democrats had got the control of the Congress of the United States, an election result important step almost unnoticed.
Although highlighted the shortcomings of the American political system, I returned faith in the compassion of US ordinary.
In Arizona, citizens can put a bill to the direct popular vote if meet a sufficient number of signatures.
This year, one of the issues that appeared in the ballot was a law to ban atara or confined to marrana preñada or maid beef meat to prevented the animal turn freely, go and extend their limbs completely.
Those who know little about the modern industrial farming can ask why this legislation.
Under the rearing methods that were universal 50 years ago and which remain common in some countries today, all animals have room for return and stretching their limbs.
However, today around 90% of the marranas breeding - mothers of pigs which are bred and kill for meat, meat and jamónpasan most of their lives locked in cages measuring 60 cms by 2.2 metres.
They cannot give return, go with their legs widespread completely or more than one step forward or back.
In other marranas kept tied with short strings prevent turn.
calves are contains similar throughout their lives in pens that cannot be return, go or stretch their limbs.
These methods are essentially resources to spare - facilitate the handling of animals and allow farms which have thousands or tens of thousands of animals hire a small number of less skilled workers.
We also prevent animals wasted energy moving and struggling.
For years, following the protests of the organisations of protection of animals, the European Union instructed its Scientific Committee Veterinary a report on these methods.
The committee found that animals suffer cannot move freely and not have absolutely nothing to do in all day.
Of course, common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
As a result of the report, the EU set dates after which would be banned confining those animals.
In the case of calves, the date, 1 January 2007, almost has arrived.
The individual stalls for marranas, which are illegal in the United Kingdom and Sweden, will be forbidden throughout the EU from 2013.
It also are gradually taking measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, which generally remains apretujadas wire cages without room to extend their wings.
In the United States foresees no national measure of this kind.
Previously, when my friends European asking me why the United States are so far behind with Europe in terms of animal welfare, I was not a response.
If I pressing, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans less concerned about the animals that Europeans.
Then, in 2002 the defenders of animal welfare included in electoral ballots Florida a proposal to ban stalls for marranas.
To many people's surprise, received the approval of 55% of the voters.
Last month in Arizona, despite a funded opposition of the agro-industrial sector, the ban on small cages for marranas and calves was also adopted with a support of 62%.
Neither Florida or Arizona are particularly progressive states - both voted for George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
That is why the results firmly indicate that if all Americans are given the opportunity to vote on the confinement of gravid marranas and calves in such small places, the majority vote against.
It appears that the Americans animal welfare irrelevant as Europeans.
Therefore, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States in terms of animal welfare, we must look at the political systems.
In Europe, the concerns of the voters on the welfare of the animals have influence on the members of the national parliaments and the members of the European Parliament, which has resulted national and EU guidelines that respond to these concerns.
In contrast, in the United States similar concerns have not had a observable effect on the members of Congress.
There is no federal legislation on the farm animal welfare - and very few state legislation.
That, I believe, is that the agro-industrial sector gives tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of the Congress who seek re-election.
The movement for the welfare of animals, despite the wide popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of political lobbying and donations to campaigns.
American policy the money that the opinion of the electorate.
The party discipline is weak and the representatives must meet them most of the funds needed for re-election, and this happens every two years in the case of the Members of the House of Representatives.
In Europe, where party discipline is rigid and parties, not the candidates, who finance the campaigns, the money plays a minor role.
In the United States, a nation that prides itself on its democratic traditions, not only lose marranas and calves.
What is the New in the New Afghan Army?
The tidal murder of the Minister of Aviation of Afghanistan (perhaps encouraged by members of the temporary administration in Afghanistan) shows that the Afghan society remains deeply fisurada.
The first reforms of the Afghan army only make these further divisions.
The Minister of Defence of Hamid Karzai temporary administration in Kabul already appointed the highest official of this new army.
The minister, the general Mohammed Fahim, tayik the Panjshir district in the north of the country that three months ago took command of the Northern Alliance forces that Kabul captured after the Americans bombers clarified the way.
Overall, their appointments pose a direct challenge to the objective which Mr Karzai of reuniting the country.
Afghanistan is a multi-ethnic nation, Pashtun the largest group, with two fifths of the total.
The Hazars and tayik each nearly a fifth of the population.
high official treintaiocho to the status of a general by Mr Fahim, treintaisiete tayik and the other uzbek.
If any of the fifteen seventeen million of the country Pashtun is recruited as soldiers, will under a structure of command consists almost in their entirety tayiks.
The language of the Pashtun, however, is so different from the tayik as the Spanish English and millions of the Pashtun age of serving in the militia know only a breath of tayik, at best.
The geographical profile of the new military leadership is so tight as their ethnic constitution.
Thirty-five official treintaiocho high rank come from a small area to the north of Kabul, constituída the province Parwan (detects the airport of Bagram) and the Panjshir valley, which long was the strong seat of the Northern Alliance.
Since the potential leaders of twenty-seven twenty-nine provinces of Afghanistan were excluded from the new military elite of the country.
Perhaps a group with a basis for so little variety could not give the impression that its members make up a gang secretive if represented a broad crusade section of the twelve or more political parties of the country.
But that is not the case.
Eighteen high treintaiocho commanders come from a party, Jamiat-e-Islami, Islamic faction led long Mullah and exprofesor theology Burhanuddin Rabbani.
This was the party that Kabul ruled in the mid- 1990 s, leading bloodshed and chaos which led the majority of Afghans were welcome the Taliban.
Almost everything to the same level the number of members of the Jamiat military hierarchy, the Communists.
Dieciseis treintaiocho have long been aligned with this party, whose stratagems the end of the 1970 s led to the Soviet invasion of 1979-89, which took two and a half million lives Afghanistan.
Today, the majority of Afghans see the Communists with the same sympathy that the Czechs or Poles reserved for national socialism of Hitler.
True, the people in Afghanistan, as elsewhere, joined the Communist Party for various reasons and ningua were all supporters of strict ideologies.
But in the case of the general general Fahim were six professional employees of the Communist Party and continued to work for him after the invasion of the Red Army.
The six, along with three other communists who served as official of the Afghan army, worked actively during the decade of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
Imagine how the French have reacted if a quarter of the body of official in France in the postwar era had taken the side of the Wehrmacht when their country occupied.
In Afghanistan the news travel rapid everyone's lips.
The Afghan nationalist (almost all the Afghan) discover soon the political background of the internal circle of the general Fahim, if not familiar.
Even this evidence of sobrecogeedora and unipartidismo bias in the formation of the high command of the new army could be neutralised if the general give professionalism and commitment to patriotic values of a genuine national armed force through its work.
Unfortunately, only ten of the military treintaiocho promoted by Fahim fungido as official military professionals.
A eleventh served as a pilot.
In contrast, twenty-four of the total (the background of the remaining four unknown) come from civil society, with whatever professions, or the offices of the Communist Party or, in one of the cases, career as Mullah.
What do these statistics in terms of the daily reality?
It means that when commanders of international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as the military and American diplomats, know the Minister Asistende the Defence of Afghanistan will be with Abdul Rashid, Dostum a remarkably brutal and corrupt military and communist commander remains in contact with old friends of the Red Army in service in Moscow.
It means that the head of the Afghan Armed Forces, as well as the head of Operations and the Military Head of communist men, whose loyalty is uncertain and those wary the majority of Afghans.
Is that a team that would have the possibility of unifying Afghanistan fragmented by the war?
Is Inspirará presence in Kabul dudable crew, confidence in the three quarters of the population of Afghanistan have been excluded from the high command of the army?
Or is this list, rather, harvest of a rapprochement with the governability of the "for the winner" that is designed (future) to trigger another bloody national setback in the hands of those whose legitimate interests have been cynically themselves rushed?
The Americans, Europeans and people of the United Nations policymakers should ponder these questioning before allowing consent a merciless takeover in charge of a small and unpopular minority.
A recognition of irrational
My applause for the new Nobel prize-winners economy: Daniel Kahneman, the Princeton University and Vernon Smith, the University of Virginia George Mason.
Like many other Nobel prize-winners, these honours are a recognition not only the oldest work done by Kahneman and Smith, but also to schools of thought that helped to lead.
Kahneman, sicólogo, has shown how people behave systematically in ways less rational that orthodox economists believe.
His research shows not only that people sometimes act differently to predict standard economic theories, but a regular and systematic, and in ways that we can understand and interpret through alternative scenarios that compete with those used by orthodox economists.
For all the participants in the market (and, indeed, for the observers ordinary) does not seem to be a great innovation.
The agents of Wall Street were the sale to knew that they would not use the irrationality exploited that Kahneman and Smith described.
Much of the fever that led to the bubble economy was based on the exploitation of investors psychology.
In fact, this irrationality is nothing new for the profession of economists.
For a long time John Maynard Keynes described the stock market as based not on rational people fighting for develar the fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest that whoever wins conceal the verdict of the judges.
The Nobel Prize for this year is a recognition of the criticism of a simplistic market economy, as did the prize last year (which I was one of the three winners).
The winners of last year laid emphasis on different market participants have different (and imperfect) information, and that these asymmetries of information have a profound impact on how the economy.
In particular, rewarded last year meant that the markets were not effective in general, and that the government should play an important role.
The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets efficiency as if handled an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
This is not novelty for those working day by day in the market (and their fortunes exploiting and save the asymmetries of information.
For more than 20 years, economists have been fascinated by so-called models of "rational expectations', which assumed that all participants have the same (if not perfect) information and who act perfectly rational, that markets are perfectly efficient, unemployment never exists (except when it is caused by the greed of unions or the minimum wages of the governments), and in which there is never a rationing of credit.
The that these models have prevailed, especially in the American universities, despite the evidence is a testimony to the triumph of ideology on science.
Unfortunately, students from these programmes university who now designing policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas which has been called market fundamentalism.
I malentienda: the models of rational expectations made a major contribution to the economy; the rigour its advocates imposed on the economic thinking helped highlighted the weaknesses of many underlying hypothesis.
The good science acknowledges its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations often have shown that modesty.
Vernon Smith is a leader in the development of the experimental economy, the idea that it is possible to prove various economic proposals in an environment of laboratory.
One of the reasons for the economy a difficult issue, and why many inequalities among economists, is the fact that they cannot make controlled experiments.
Nature offers natural experiments, but in almost all the circumstances so many things change so quickly that often difficult fathom what caused.
In principle, in a laboratory can experiment controlled and, therefore, inferences more reliable.
critics of the experimental economy are concerned that the subject to give experimental situations of thought ways originating outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not so clear and inferences not defined as natural sciences.
However, the economic experiments provide prospects for a number of important problems, such as better design of auctions.
More importantly, the irrationality of the participants in the market, which was the focus of the work of Kahneman, has repeatedly seen in laboratory contexts.
Among the results more sexy that have emerged from the experimental economy are those relating to the altruism and selfishness.
It seems that (at least in situations experimental) subjects of experiments are not so selfish as economists have raised in their hypothesis, except in the case of a group: the same economists.
Is this that the economy as discipline attracts people who are more selfish by nature or the economy help train individuals, making them more selfish?
Almost with certainty the answer is both.
Probably, the future experimental research will help resolve the question about the relative importance of these two scenarios.
The Nobel Prize stress how important it is to study the people and the economy, not as they want.
Only if understand better the real human behaviour can we expect designing policies that make our economies work better.
The bad faith in the energy policy of Bush
In one of the most surrealist session of the World Economic Forum in Davos this year, experts from the oil industry explained how the melting of the polar ice cap -- that is happening faster than anyone had expected - is not only a problem, but also an opportunity: can now that facilitates access to vast numbers of oil.
Similarly, these experts grant that United States has not signed the Convention of the Sea, the international treaty which determines who has access to the overseas oil and other minerals rights maritime, presents a risk of international conflict.
But we also highlight the advantageous: the oil industry, in his relentless quest for more reservations, does not need ask Congress to the right to raiding Alaska.
President George W. Bush has a strange ability to see the greatest message.
For years, it has become increasingly clear that its energy policy is quite wrong.
Following the dictates of the oil industry, even members of his own party referred to a previous energy law as a "left any lobbying dissatisfied."
While applauds the virtues of the free market, Bush has not done more to huge emoluments to the energy industry, even in times that the country faces sky-high deficits.
There is a failure of the market in energy, but the intervention of the government should go in the opposite direction that proposed by the Bush administration.
The fact that the Americans do not pay the price of pollution resulting from their spendthrift use of energy - especially the huge quantities of greenhouse gases - means that it is undervalued, which in turn maintains an excessive consumption.
The government must encourage conservation, and intervene in the system of prices - through energy taxes - is an efficient way of doing so.
However, instead of encouraging conservation, Bush has pursued a policy of "disposed to the United States" first, left America more dependent on external oil in the future.
No matter that high demand will increase oil prices, creating a barrage of money for many of the actors in the Middle East which are not exactly friends of the US.
Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush finally seems to have woken up to the reality of the growing dependence on USA; with the huge increase in oil prices, it will be difficult not felt the consequences.
However, almost certainly hesitant measures of its administration make it worse in the immediate future.
Bush still refuses to do anything with the conservation, and has supported with very little money its constant mantra that the technology is what has to save.
So what can think of their recent declaration of a commitment to US 75% less dependent on Middle East oil in 25 years?
For investors, the message is clear: not invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the cheapest source of global oil.
However, without new investments in the development of reserves in the Middle East, growth debocado energy consumption in the United States, China and the rest of the world means that the pace of demand exceed supply.
As if this were not enough, the Bush threat to implement sanctions against Iran poses the risk of occurring interruptions in the supply of one of the largest producers in the world.
As the world oil production is close to full capacity and prices are more than double its previous level to the Iraq War, the future suggests prices and profits greater for the oil industry, the only clear winner of Bush's policy in the Middle East.
It is clear that we should not accuse Bush, and finally have acknowledged that there is a problem.
But, as always, a more detailed look at what suggests another conjuring trick hands of its administration.
In addition to refuse to recognise the importance of global warming, stimulate conservation or devote sufficient funds to research to make a real difference, the promise of bombastic Bush to achieve a reduction of dependence on Middle East oil means less than it seems.
Given that only 20% of the oil used in America comes from the Middle East, its target could achieve with a modest acquisition of this resource from other sources.
However, one might think - without doubt that the Bush administration realise that oil is traded in a global market.
Even if America was 100% independent of oil from the Middle East, a reduction in the supply from this region have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.
As often with the Bush administration, the explanation of the official policy is not very cheerful.
Is Bush playing politics to refine the feeling anti-árabe and anti-Iranian in the USA?
Or is just another example of incompetence and lawlessness?
For what we have seen in the last five years, the correct response contains probably more than of bad faith and pure ineptitude.
The roadmap China
China is about to adopt its eleventh five-year plan, setting the stage for the continuation of probably the most notable economic transformation of history, while improving the situation material almost a quarter of the world's population.
Never before the world had seen a growth of sustained; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
Part of the long-term success of China has been almost unique combination of pragmatism and vision.
While much of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington Consensus, geared to a crusade quijotesca more GDP, once again China has made clear that seeks increases sustainable and fair in the real standards of living.
China realise that has entered a phase of economic development that is leading enormous - and unsustainable - demands on the environment.
Unless there is a change of direction, living standards eventually being affected.
For this reason, the new plan for five years great emphasis on the environment.
Several of the most backward areas of China have been growing at a pace that prodigious, if it were not for the fact that some parts of the country are growing even faster.
Although this has reduced poverty, inequality has risen, with ever greater disparities between urban and rural areas, and between coastal areas and the internal.
The Development Report of the World Bank of this year explains why inequality - and not just poverty - must be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China attacks on.
For several years the government has spoken of a more harmonious society, and the plan describes ambitious programmes to achieve it.
Moreover, China recognises that what separates the least developed countries developed is not only a income gap, but also a gap in knowledge.
So it has devised a bold plan not only to reduce it, but also create a basis for independent innovation.
China's role in the world and in the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects that.
Their future growth must be based more on domestic demand that exports, which will require an increase in consumption.
Indeed, China has a little common problem: an excessive level of savings.
People saves in part because of the weakness of social security schemes of the government; the strengthening of social security (pensions) and public health simultaneously reduce the social inequalities, increase the sense of well-being of the citizens and promote the present consumption.
If successful (so far and China has even exceeded their own expectations), these adjustments can mean enormous pressure on a global economic system that is already unbalanced due to the huge fiscal and trade imbalances in the US.
If China saves less - and if, as announced its authorities, seeks to conduct a more diversified policy of investment of its reserves - who finance the more than $2 billion daily trade deficit of the USA?
It is a matter for another occasion, but that day is not very far.
With a view clear on the future, the challenge will be to implement it.
China is a large country, and could not have achieved the success of without a widespread decentralisation.
But descentralizaciones raise their own problems.
For example, the greenhouse gases are global problems.
While America says that we cannot afford to do anything, high China authorities have acted more responsible.
Within the month after the adoption of the plan, imposed new environmental taxes on cars, petrol and forest products China used market-based mechanisms to address the environmental problems and global theirs.
However, the pressure on the authorities of the local governments to create economic growth and jobs will be enormous.
They will be very tempted to argue that USA cannot produce in a way that protects the planet, how could do them?
To translate their vision to actions, the Chinese government will need sound policies, such as environmental taxes.
By moving towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems that have repeatedly hit the developed countries: special interests that disguised their arguments selfish after tenuously veil of market ideology.
Some argue in favour of the economy of the chorreo: not concern for the poor, because it finally all eventually benefit from growth.
And some will oppose policies on competition and the existence of sound laws on the handling of corporations: let act the law of the Darwinian survival.
They arise arguments focused on growth to oppose the existence of social policies and environmental sound: for example, say that "if rising gasoline taxes, this means stifling our nascent automotive industry."
These alleged policies pro-crecimiento not only not created, but can threaten the same vision of the future of China.
There is one way to avoid it: an open discussion of economic policies, to expose fallacies and give room for arising creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
George W. Bush has demonstrated the dangers of an excessive secrecy and to limit the decisions to a narrow circle of followers.
Most people out of China does not appreciate how their leaders, in contrast, have been involved in lengthy deliberations and extensive consultations (even with foreign) in their efforts to address the enormous problems that face.
The market economies are not regulate themselves.
We cannot simply leave automatic pilot, especially if you want to ensure that all enjoy the benefits.
However, it is not easy to administer a market economy.
As a juggler, constantly to balance the economic changes.
The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that answer.
The world notes with astonishment and hope as the lives of 1.3 billion people still become.
The lessons of Tocqueville on Democracy
It is appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, the world is debating the nature of democracy 200 years of the birth of Alexis de Tocqueville.
Tocqueville is deservedly famous to reject the reactionary nostalgia and consider the triumph of democracy as our destiny, while warned of the dangers that leads to democracy for freedom.
Should we continue sharing its concerns?
Tocqueville envisaged democracy not only as a political regime but, above all, as an intellectual regime which gives way to the customs of society in general, and gave a sociological and psychological dimension.
Tocqueville argued that the democratic regimes define our thoughts, desires and passions.
Just as a Renaissance man and, in the twentieth century, a homo sovieticus, "democratic man" is a variety of the human being.
To Tocqueville, systemic effects of democracy could lead the public to deprive reasoned thoughts.
Only could pretend that viewed the events and values alone; indeed, purely copiaban toscas and simplified opinions of the masses.
Indeed, what Tocqueville called the dominance of the "social power" on the opinion is probably stronger in democratic regimes - view that predicts the growth of demagogy in the modern era and the manipulation of the media.
Tocqueville believed that this trend had no effective long-term limitations.
Neither local democracy, nor small companies, nor the government checks and balances, nor civil rights can prevent the decline of critical thinking that democracy seems cause.
The schools have the power to be little more than enclaves in the corrosive force of social influences on the mind.
Similarly, although Tocqueville thought to seek virtue as was seniority or a religious belief sometimes could raise the soul, also entered conflict with the democratic ideal if officially prescribed in public life.
In this sense, the intellectual heirs of Tocqueville include theorists neomarxistas of Frankfurt College, as well as Hannah Arendt All feared the disintegration of reason in modern societies.
Indeed, the French philosopher Marcel Gauchet intituló a recent book The democracy against itself.
The democratic lifestyle, as these writers argue, tends to destroy the original thinking and to remove the "high" culture, a mediocrity that makes people vulnerable to the enemies of democracy.
But, while history is full of murderous regimes praised by intimidated and misled masses, the great risk for democratic countries is that its citizens fall into the apathy and the short-term vision in the name of immediate satisfaction.
The past - despite the rituals seeking commemorate historic moments - is obliterated due to addiction new and recent.
Even the ruling classes supposedly well-educated is subject to this charm.
The essential problem of democratic mind is its lack of historical awareness.
The deficiencies of democracy, really mean, as Tocqueville argued that the pessimism resigned is the only way - realistic but unsustainable -?
I think not.
There are ways of combating what might be called the growing "democratic stupidity" today.
The first defence is pressing for an education system that really formed critical minds, by means of the issues largely neglected (currently) by literature, history and philosophy.
If we want to form the informed citizenry and criticism that democracy needs, our schools must stop placate fashions of the month more recent and begin to improve analytical capabilities of students.
The biggest obstacle to education are the mass media, with its tendency to grow the superficial and fun.
Today many people is more time of their lives watching television that halls of class.
The passivity which promote the media is the opposite of the active participation that democratic citizens need.
But it is difficult to imagine that the mass media (except for the newspapers quality) become, by their own willingness, instruments of education which strengthens the criticism capacities of the citizens.
This concern about the mass media is not merely elitist contempt towards popular culture.
The question is not only popularity - after all, Mozart was popular in their times and Shakespeare's theatrical works atraían both the poor to the rich - but of the rejection of mass culture to challenge and cause.
The result of this failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
Indeed, for a long time has been booming a globalised culture of the means which is unable to give the ability of critical thinking or creating higher feelings.
It is a culture which, because of their oversight, threatens the democratic freedom because cannot create any sense of duty - society, history, the community.
Is too late to do something about a culture that erased both the spirit?
Tocqueville scorned the elites of their time for complacency on the strength of rootlessness of mass democracy.
Does will also short-sightedness of our leaders as an agent of its disturbing prophecy?
One Europe for all
Today, Member long belonging to European Union seem doubt the future, but in Ukraine see with hope and admiration.
Combining the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, because that Ukraine has discovered that a nation is not an end, but a start.
Indeed, the European unity is indivisible: when a nation is ostracised, none of them is free.
We Europeans part indispensable close network, intertwined in a single fabric which represents our destination.
Every aspect of our common culture, if not the last century of shared suffering, confirms that for us.
All that affects a European directly affects all of us indirectly.
Never more afford live with a close notion of two Europes, dispossessed, privileged and known and outsiders.
Nobody who live within the European continent can (or) should be considered alien to the Union.
depend on the great European Pax pan-European and prosperity of today.
Of course, some people murmurs that Ukraine is not Europe.
That come to Kiev and talk to people, both young and greater, with factory workers, by farmers wives, lawyers, doctors and teachers remained enduring for weeks the cold and snow last winter to defend its freedoms.
There are united by a link with those who remained on the side of General de Gaulle in the French Resistance?
There are those who died fighting for the Spanish Republic in the 1930, with whom liberated Budapest in 1956 and those who were end to fascism in Spain and Portugal in the 1970 s?
There are driven by the same spirit which gave forces to the Solidarity movement in Poland and peaceful masses that conducted the Velvet Revolution in Prague in 1989?
That is the real European spirit, and no doubt can overturn it.
To those who say that Ukraine is too delayed for membership, I say: to come to my country and see mothers night in their workplaces teach their children to use their computers.
That come to see the lessons of languages in each nation and city where young people are preparing for Europe, learning French, German and English.
Those doubt the European vocation of Ukraine must understand that Europe is not a matter of machinery and superautopistas; the inextinguible desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
I believe that our future is so promising as brilliant is the past in Europe, and that our destiny is not a forgotten country border in a region of problems, but a builder and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
The self-determination does not mean isolation, because national independence today means only return to the global stage with a new status.
The new nations can create with its former occupiers the same sort of fruitful relationship that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
This is the kind of relationship that my government seeks with Russia, and it is the way we can extend the area of peace in Europe.
Of course, it is premature to indicate the great interest to see the prospect of members of the EU.
We know that our part in this large building would not be built overnight.
We know that the major projects of European unification does not lie in documents or declarations, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and guarantee the safety of all Europeans.
Building a dignified Ukraine to be a member of the EU will not be easy, cheap or fast.
However, as the Union itself, is a company that is achieved.
We know that the challenge is large, but the prize worth the effort, and Europe must know that this is our goal.
Part of the task of renewing Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare that fascism and communism, born ideologies in the heart of Europe, fought for the total power.
It is only a few months, in the cities of Ukraine, our children and their parents faced armed troops, threatening dogs, or even to death.
Only a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze, in trying to inform the public about the corruption of the old regime, was tortured and beheaded by his henchmen.
However, our Orange Revolution of last winter demonstrated that the people of Ukraine prevailed.
So, despite the doubts and difficulties today, I maintain an abiding faith in Europe.
I rehúso to accept the unease as a final answer to the ambiguities and horrors of the history of Ukraine.
I rehúso to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically linked to the opaque midnight on the legacy of communism that never see the dawn of peace and truth of European unity.
When the EU citizens weighing Ukraine's place in Europe, should further and closer to what is at first sight.
They should look beyond the devastated left communism, beyond poverty and beyond social divisions by our former rulers, today bypassed, tried to extend its misrule.
Instead, should look closely at the face of our chairman, Viktor Yushchenko, distorted by the poison during the election campaign of last year and recall the words of the great French André Malraux, for whom the finest faces are those who were injured. "
The civil war of Muslims
Is today the division between Sunni and Shiite in the Middle East deeper than the antagonism between Israel and the Arab?
It would be, given the response of certain Arab governments of Hezbollah decision to attack Israel.
Even the Israeli bombs raining down on Beirut and Tiro, Saudi Arabia, perhaps the Arab Muslim country more conservative, openly condemned the actions of Hezbollah, which is an organisation Shia, for inciting the conflict with Israel.
Never before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict a state that is leader of the Arab Muslim peoples had supported Israel as openly.
Moreover, the breakdown of Saudi Arabia with Hezbollah is not an isolated.
Egypt and Jordan have also categorically condemned to Hezbollah and its leader, Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, their lack of responsibility.
What is behind this surprising attitude?
We are witnessing a fundamental change in the relationship between the Arabic nationalism and Islamic sectarianism?
Is Saudi Arabia more concerned and afraid before the Shiite Islam that committed to the Arab unity and the Palestinian cause?
The allegations of Arab against Hezbollah suggest that sectarian division among Muslims, already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, deepened and more intense in the Middle East.
The desire of President George W. Bush remecer immobile societies in the Arab world was intended to lift the forces of modernisation against the traditional elements of Arab and Islamic societies.
Instead, seems to have triggered the most atavistic forces in the region.
Opening Pandoras Box can start a new and more bitter was widespread violence, it may be possible only called a "civilian War Muslim."
The division between Shia and Sunnis has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical and ethnic isolation of the Shiite Iran Arab, together with the dominance of the Sunni Arab countries on its minorities Shia, largely kept this rivalry in second place.
These tensions fell further with the Islamist tide created by the Iranian revolution, because after the Arab sectarian identity lost even more weight as appeared a "Islamic" identification widespread.
All this changed when Al Qaeda, a Sunni terrorist force heavily based on ideology of the Wahhabi Saudis and its people, launched attacks on America in September 2001.
Now there was a specifically Sunni arm of the militant Islamism.
When America opened its wars against the Taliban Sunnis in Afghanistan and the Sunni regime in Iraq, this new ordinary Sunni radical strengthened even more.
The Sunni Arabs in the region, with its new impetus, perceive that Israel and the West are only one of the threats, while the other is the so-called "Crescent Shiite", the arc of land that extends from Lebanon to Iran, via Syria and Iraq, inhabited by the supposedly heretical Shia.
The leaders of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the most sacred places of the Muslim faith in Mecca and Medina, and more inclined to feel this threat.
In the eyes of the Sunni, Shia not only dominate the rich areas of oil in Iran, Iraq, and Eastern region in Saudi Arabia, but -- through the actions of Hezbollah - are trying to usurp the role of "protective" of the central dream of all Arabs, the Palestinian cause.
The Kingdom Saudi has turned against Hezbollah due to the fact that the Saudi royal family derives its legitimacy from a strict form of Sunni Islam and the loyalty of their Shiite population.
Ironically, the US, the traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, who has made it possible to strengthen the Shia, ousting Saddam Hussein and the Shiite parties to power in Iraq.
The Bush administration seems to acknowledge what he has done; as the Shiite arc grows in the Arab Muslim world, the USA tries to strengthen its protection arc of the Sunni (Egypt, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia) in the west of the region.
Israel, once-powerful the unrelenting enemy of Arab cause, now seems to have been integrated defence structures.
However, a defensive position with these characteristics is intended to be unstable, due to the pan-Arab sentiments.
Today, the ordinary Saudis citizens still events in Gaza and the southern Lebanon, through Al Jazeera and other networks of satellite TV.
They see shed blood Arab (Shiite), and only Hezbollah responds to the attacks.
In their eyes, Hezbollah has become a model heroic resistance.
This is that the Saudi state deepen the rift between Sunni and Shiite.
After the official Kingdom accusations against Hezbollah, the Saudi state called their official Wahhabi clerics issuing fatwas condemning Hazbolah as an organisation of heretics and cismáticos Shia.
This kind of sentences cannot do more than exacerbate divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.
As intensified these antagonisms, will come to believe the Sunni regimes which need its own Hezbollah in their corner of the world?
If reach this conclusion, do not have to look far, since these militia have already been trained... by Al-Qaeda.
Georgia in the minds of Europe
The era in which Europe could trust in America to make war, peace and democracy in its own back yard ended.
As demonstrated recently the crisis of Russian gas, with the enlargement of the EU's backyard now includes not only Ukraine but also to Georgia.
In fact, like Ukraine, Georgia faces a test of its democracy that Europe cannot afford to ignore.
Georgia was the first post-Soviet country to initiate a "revolution of colours" and to demonstrate, with dignity and maturity, the option of its people for democracy and European values.
The European Union flags that they have since waved in all public buildings in Georgia are a sign of accession natural and as old as the history of a country that the ancient Greeks was integral part of the world known.
Prometheus, Medea, the Amazon, and in neighbouring Armenia, Arca Noah... the Europe of our myths starts here.
With its history, culture and traditions (including its critical spirit, independent and even rebel within the former Soviet Union), Georgia seem an ideal candidate for a successful democratization.
That is much more worrying that zozobrando.
Everything seemed to have started well enough.
There was no resistance to political reforms, privatisation, anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders tainted with arrangements with the old regime, and the implementation of a foreign policy pro-European.
However, since then has reappeared a totalitarian mindset in leaders who, with the excuse to represent the will of the majority, are misappropriating ever more power.
As the hydra of the ancient Greeks, the political elite in Georgia seems never end of death and revival.
The same people and methods of government that tried to defeat the "Rose Revolution" in November 2003 have reappeared in the centre of power, through the use of their networks of relations, which extend beyond the bounds of the country, as well as their tremendous wealth and accurate manipulation skills and intrigue policy.
All this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which is not merely ballot vote, but in the separation of powers.
The government interfering in the affairs of the parliament, which control the details of the executive... in my case included the appointment of the ambassadors and their daily routines!
Finally, and what is more serious, the judiciary is not independent, which undermines the rule of law and prevents private investments that are needed.
Georgia's democracy exists in its head, but not yet in his body: the citizens still scorn the policy as a dirty business, abandoning who should have been retired.
However, the hope of democracy is still heavily rooted in the people, civic organisations and the media.
Now is the time for Europe to ensure that this hope is not extinga.
America has already done everything that has been able to support political stability in Georgia, since independence.
There is no doubt that stability not always amounted to democracy during the government of Eduard Shevardnadze, the former foreign minister of the former Soviet Union which was taken from power during the Rosa Revolution.
However, the Americans generously invested to support the survival of ideas and democratic leaders.
Although the foundation backed by the financista George Soros not manufactured the Revolution Rosa claim, as the Russian nationalist, certainly fed, encouraged and supported the preconditions of democracy.
However, to help consolidate their democracy, Georgia now needs support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to offer.
The models of balance of powers, operation of the judiciary and local democracy must inspire in European forms closer to the Georgian reality that Anglo-Saxon models of the US.
If Europe does not assume this challenge, betrayal its fundamental duties (small Mediterranean, flexible, old historical traditions) where democracy has many more chance of success than in Ukraine, which is enormous and dominated a Soviet mindset, not to mention the Central Asia.
In fact, not support the nascent democracy in Georgia likely delay the democratic progress in Ukraine, Belarus and even Russia itself.
Clearly, this increases what is at stake.
While Russia has never renounced their dreams and instruments of imperial domination, was console the inevitability of democracy, at least in their margins.
But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden eruption of the irrational famosamente Russian "derzhava": an aggressive ethos glorifying the state and affirms its strength through the oppression of the weak.
This is the key to understand the recent crisis of Russian gas.
It is equally sure that any sign of democratic decline in Georgia and other states post-Soviet will give impetus to the Russian Neo-Imperial ambitions.
It is the responsibility of Europe convince Russia that there is no hope of a return to the past.
Europe must take this role not only to ensure the future independence of their energy supply, but also to demonstrate that the European values of freedom, democracy and justice between peoples have a real force.
To achieve this, must equip itself with the necessary instruments: a great half-open foundation for promoting Europe and support political reforms, a university for training future executives in emerging democracies, a police force and a set of judges and magistrates to give life to the models that we want to emulate.
Above all, Europe needs conviction.
If today's Europe cannot convince that has a vital interest in the future of their neighbours, who is going to believe tomorrow in Europe?
