 Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
 We need to know as fifteen organise ourselves in order to be able to receive good conditions in those countries that are knocking at our door.
 Article 87 should be included in the scope of the existential assistance for social, cultural and caritativos for these important institutions enjoy a lasting protection.
 Some argue that can create an internal market in Europe without agree on values and principles.
 I welcome the important and substantial intervention of President Prodi.
 You know that this is a deliberate decision which took place in Amsterdam, perfectly able to distinguish the two roles, the High Representative, unlike the Commission, not manifests itself in complete independence, but it has the task of coordinating common foreign and security policies which fall within the competence of the Member States and in this case we should perhaps a broad area the intergovernmental aspect.
 The Presidency has asked me to draw in Nice the path for the future.
 Indeed, we want to see more and better, but I think in all honesty that this is a good start.
 Consequently, I trust that the European Council in Nice to be associated with this project and decide starting specifically as a project, not as a fait accompli, having approved the reforms now of course need.
 However, I have also indicated that specifically based on this, we can achieve the objectives are extremely important to the Community method with which we have at present, for example, for a better action in the Balkans.
 Only if we link to the West and Russia to the European Union, we can influence its policy and maintain contact and dialogue with this country.
 Motion for a resolution (B5-0767 / 00) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
 Continues to perpetrate this genocide and also seeks to eliminate completely the freedom of the press and the rule of law, whose existence is already precarious.
 Precisely in order to respond to the expectations of the pensioners who called Giuseppe Italy and live in Cremona, to which I would like to surf in the Po Valley, I voted in favour of the Piecyk report on the promotion and the development of seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals.
 - (DE) The result of the vote in this Parliament will make it impossible to achieve the objective of the directive, a recognised by the objective and we have heard all the speakers and the Commission.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the Skinner report, as I said during the debate before the vote, because I believe that the risk capital is important.
 My group colleague Armonie Bordes so incisive pointed out yesterday that only a minority has an interest in the transfer of Community money and contributions of retirement pensions to the risks of entrepreneurs.
 Consequently, the Charter will serve mainly to confirm the current practices, even backward-looking, instead of the national States, represent a step forward.
 Mr President, at last we have a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European citizen that contains an article, Article 25, entirely devoted to the elderly.
 In principle this text can apparently anodyne, because basically contains existing rights, but if it is incorporated in the Treaty with binding force, as called for by the European Parliament, with the time would tend to automatically the harmonisation of national laws in Europe; it would be a disproportionate to the Court of Justice would; greater centralisation around the European institutions; would limit the scope of autonomous decision of each nation.
 · must be avoided an overload of the burden with detailed regulation, which must be reserved for the provisions of lower status.
 I will vote for another letter, to take part in the demonstrations in Biarritz, on 13 and 14 October and in Nice on 7 December 2000.
 Progress towards accession of the 12 candidate countries.
 In my opinion, several Member States have not yet understood the existence of this connection hesitant and the progress of the Intergovernmental Conference can lead to major difficulties in carrying out enlargement in the timescale.
 We can only lead to in practice with lasting nature on all the issues that I have mentioned until now if the policy and leader of the applicant countries and the European Union - and in this regard I agree with you, Commissioner, to make public opinion that the enlargement of the European Union is itself beneficial.
 This is the formula adopted.
 Allow me to mention now the second orientation according to which the Presidency wishes to make progress during this six-month period, the process of enlargement.
 What I propose, therefore, is to work in this direction with the idea that we must examine the prospect of 2003, what are the candidate countries that could join in this date.
 I thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok, on his comprehensive report and clarificador, as well as the other rapporteurs.
 In these negotiations is not arises in the case ningun "...", but if the 'how' and 'cúando ".
 But has also been achieved because the prospect of becoming members of the European Union gives hope in the solidarity of the European peoples, and because this is required solid foundations for political and economic.
 Several countries have recorded, with regard to the second criterion of economic competitiveness in the internal market, so that substantial progress is approaching rapidly to fulfilling the requirements for membership.
 Therefore, we hope that the programmes of coordination with the national governments, the European Parliament and the other institutions as closely as possible.
 In every country of the expected accession with great concern the opinion which the Commission approved annually on its progress, provided it is again shortly, on 8 November.
 We have chosen rightly the principle of differentiation, according to which each candidate country will be judged on its own merits.
 This debate represents another opportunity to my political group to emphasise that the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries and Cyprus and Malta, is the best guarantee of a future for all of us in Europe, both to the East and the West.
 It is a matter of the utmost importance and, despite that, interestingly, it has given rise to public attention.
 People spent jokes by saying that after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, enlargement remains in five years ’ time.
 The next opportunity will be natural in connection with the elections to the European Parliament following the year 2009, but we strive for the greatest possible number of countries can join in 2004.
 By the way, are the six points of substance that we care about the method.
 In reality, we are swimming in our own model of European construction, namely the simultaneous integration of all sectors of activity, beyond the traditions or of the specific features of each other, turns again in a trap.
 Your words have the support of the President of the Central Bank Hungarian: "The European Union must give the signals" in Eastern Europe, otherwise sospechará that Europe is not working seriously on enlargement, something which could end up in a dangerous disillusionment on the promises of Brussels - and I quote - the Hungarian spokesman.
 But things must be clear: we cannot have an income linked.
 This is an idea that force is also a big idea: we do not achieve the enlargements against the opinion, and the best way to achieve the enlargement with the opinion is its participation in elections, since the elections are an expression of democracy and the method of accession of the citizens in the political system.
 (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something briefly about the preconditions of scenario desired here by several parties.
 I would be very surprised if not ejerciesen this pressure.
 But I have already indicated that all countries are close relatively quickly to the readiness for accession.
 This means that the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products sector is already agreed without Poles have concerns that therefore sink their agriculture.
 Efforts are needed, but, in general, peace and trade have established stronger ties between citizens, now even more solid with monetary union.
 What consideration must be the outcome of the negotiations.
 The only amendment that has been tabled is already covered in my report, but I am delighted that the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance wants to stress the importance of equal treatment for citizens.
 This is not only includes a law on the public service but also that there are opportunities for young employees of the administration and an appropriate payment.
 This applies both to Latvia and the European Union.
 It has been planned lita the linking of the euro in the second half of the year 2001.
 (IT) Mr President, Mr Commissioner, Poland, the country for which I am rapporteur, is the largest and most important, but, as we know, it is also the most problematic countries who are preparing to enter the European Union, which is so problematic hear voices on its possible exclusion of the first group of countries which will be included in the first place.
 Poland, the Eastern countries, the countries that have done too were Communist unfulfilled promises.
 There is one point that always arises when it comes to the Czech Republic is the problem of the Roma.
 Slovakia is not condemned to the second group, and it is only logical that wants to join when they make the Czech Republic.
 At the same time, I would like, finally, to make an observation on domestic policy.
 Thirdly, as regards agriculture, whose productivity is still below the level of the European Union, it is important to ensure the total opening up of the agricultural market capital necessary for the privatisation of the land, the modernisation of farms and marketing structures, as well as for the improvement of incomes.
 Bulgaria is waiting with bated breath the time to join the European Union and NATO.
 The acute poverty has been a fundamental problem of Romania since 1990, and with the current government the economy, finally, is giving real signs of improvement.
 I trust that these matters become the priorities of the new Parliament which will take place within a fortnight, and the new government.
 But we also that the definitive solution, fair and permanent should fully respect both the relevant resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations, which is neither more nor less than the current international law and the principles governing the European Union.
 Malta has also stable democratic institutions that function.
 - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we want to make our contribution to this debate.
 That must also apply the European Community law is not only a law in the books, but must also be a law in the candidate countries in action.
 This change is a tough demands on people in the applicant countries, but at the same time ensuring their future and the future of their children.
 We must devote special attention - which I agree with the previous speaker - to the border regions.
 In this context, we must not leave the Commission alone.
 The candidate countries want to achieve a rapid economic growth, even if this takes place at the expense of a policy of protecting nature previously established.
 We are faced with a traffic altogether and return of bad habits, many of them linked to health.
 Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a strong and united European continent.
 The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which is competent in the field of transport and trans-European networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the various sectoral policies in favour of an overall policy planning.
 But before I make the observation that the transport infrastructure will be of central importance for the success of enlargement.
 - (DA) Mr President, I join in the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is the greatest task now facing the EU.
 It has had a great deal of pressure on the traditional social values in Central and Eastern Europe.
 The PPE does not want to usurp the responsibilities of the candidates on the pace of accession, because we cannot give a date for this.
 The second point is the mention of dates.
 There is another reason.
 Thirdly: the acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the various countries and for the EU in its entirety depend - as has shown Denmark - largely to reduce deficits and social democratic policy of the Union.
 Populism is the epíteto charge that technocrats attributed to the popular will when it expresses itself in a direction which is not appropriate for them.
 Ladies and gentlemen, have a pause to eat and we will continue to rest. 9 p.m.
 In a slightly more long term, there will be a single currency across the continent.
 These issues are focused on internal battles in each of the countries.
 We invite them to fight for a different Europe, of all people, who has escaped all these inhumane characteristics, in which the people are masters of their fate, develop relations of peace, freedom, mutual cooperation, brotherhood of charity.
 I have publicly praised the work of these organisations and, in particular, the challenge of Romanian appeal which is based in Birmingham and other organisations Irish supported by many people, including Daniel o donnell artist varieties, Irish, which promised a million pounds and brought in that amount in Ireland and other parts of the world.
 The Nice Summit must above all provide clarity on whether and how the EU is to act, for its part, to be in a position to enlarge itself in depth and in time.
 The Polish people are asking: what we will be when we adhiramos or second-class countries?
 I am sure that, with goodwill and with the help of the European Union, it will be possible to find a solution which would allow the two communities to live in harmony and prosper as they have done for centuries.
 But we have also addressed the question of minorities, because the issue of the integration of these linguistic minorities, including the integration, is also important in these countries.
 The requirement for membership is, essentially, the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
 We talked about the benefits of enlargement, and this is one of the areas where Lithuania shows us the way.
 Imagine if we were all as them!
 Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank and congratulate Mr Brok and the other rapporteurs, but first of all, I should like to confine myself to Slovakia, more specifically, the political situation of minorities.
 I urge you to determine in Nice to provide a date when concluding the negotiations with the candidate countries more advanced without mentioning names.
 The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in their progress for the entry into the European Union and, of course, making the planning of aid that is still more decentralised.
 The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups of civil society, the government and Parliament plays an important role in this regard and, as we have seen, also positive.
 We are running out precisely with the division of Europe into two, and not by creating a new division.
 All this is contained in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and congratulate him very sincerely on behalf of our group for this report.
 From this point of view, I believe that the Cyprus issue is the most will determine Europe ’ s ability to see your specific policies.
 I live near the Baltic Sea, which concerns us all.
 The political vision remains the same.
 Therefore, I was very happy to hear Mr Klaus Hänsch, who has spoken on behalf of the PSE Group, when he liked the Commission issued an opinion on the real consequences of enlargement, and also on the economic impact that were not carried out in the event of enlargement.
 However, I share the opinion of our rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, that without transitional periods cannot operate in the interests of both sides is precisely as a member of a border region, like Mrs Schierhuber, has a farm agricultural near the Czech border, it is very important to me that a common economic estimate just how many more areas without any major problems and that lead to positive results on both sides.
 I should like to highlight three aspects as a Social Democrat.
 The EEA, issues which are contained in the first pillar, will enable the access of the economies of the candidate countries to the internal market and will give young people to science and the right to take part in the exchange programmes, but, on the other hand, do not oblige the EU still to extend his regime of agricultural subsidies to these countries; in this way, the EEA Agreement would give a positive impetus, primarily, to the economies of the candidate countries - in need of growth to put their societies in conditions of adherirse-, but also the national economies of the EU, as it is estimated that, through economic growth, could cover even two thirds of the total costs of enlargement, and perhaps even more if we got the model of the EEA.
 Secondly: let us not to accept the idea of big-bang consisting of a large group of applicant countries at the same time, since we are opposed to the principle that the countries are accepted on its own merits.
 Thirdly: we must do everything in our power to 2003 to prepare the European Union for the enlargement process in the sense of the excellent speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
 In this context, I should like to refer to the relationship between Parliament and the Council and point out that the Council recently with a delay important answers to written questions of Members.
 It is worrying that this is happening in a country which is going to join the European Union.
 I ask for the matter to be referred back to committee for its preparation.
 (SV) Mr President, perhaps today we are going to discuss and vote on three reports on this matter, two of whom are mine.
 All those involved in the food chain will benefit.
 Safe food have a cost in the whole food chain.
 We must therefore support Mrs Paulsen and the Commission, and adopt the principle of no-disolución, to give certainty to the nutrition and genuinely to protect consumers.
 The directive in 1999 is a document well thought and can already be displays some success, since they have managed to reduce the burden of demonstrable damage.
 But simply admit dilute the possibility of "products" is not the solution.
 Very quickly, that we must insist on the amendment 37 on dioxin.
 On this point, we agree.
 Therefore, the result is that, as consumers, we must continue and their buying meat and milk products produced in the world markets with feed which do not bear any relation to the thresholds and the limit values that we have established as a European Union, and with a system of production is that of animal feed raw materials on the international markets, free of mixing wording before any principle and sell their products in the territory of the Union.
 Before the second reading, we need to know the opinion of the Commission on how it will carry out the assessment of the risk factors.
 On the contrary, it would be regrettable to see, for example, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, because that would mean that would disappear the option for Member States to intervene promptly towards the new dangers to be found.
 Consumer protection begins with the nutrition, on the content of the feed, your statement and, finally, its administrative control.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Paulsen on undesirable substances in animal nutrition deals with an important issue which, like all the important issues, raises many discrepancies.
 Mr President, the discussion on this excellent report by Mrs Paulsen nuances had very emotional in a few points, and I think that, once completed this debate, we must proceed on the basis that the required of the cattle feed industry certainly are strict but then we can do that quality is amended agregando components.
 These three proposals addressing, individually and collectively, the serious shortcomings that the dioxin crisis has brought to light.
 Amendment No 33 removes the possibility of the country of origin reexportar appropriations not permissible.
 Amendments Nos 41, 42, 43 and 44, which propose introducing the possibility of dilution under certain conditions for animal feed raw materials polluted, are also unacceptable.
 That should be sufficient, bearing in mind our commitment to establish a rapid alert system covering the whole of the food chain and animal feed in the new proposal on the food authority.
 Commissioner Byrne, following this directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs underlies the fund an old problem, namely the open declaration.
 This is a benefit that I was at this morning's sitting.
 If we do that, if that is what transponemos quickly and also quickly if we are completing the codecision procedure, without doubt we will have gained a lot, and I am sure that we will be able to maintain a strong and unanimous position before the Council.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the future too might recur or at least cannot be ruled out that introduced in animal feed was contaminated raw materials.
 The BSE scandal example was the more serious and more widely known.
 Common sense - as the rapporteur has said - would clearly have a label open, to submit the list of ingredients.
 I believe that the technical qualifications and competence of the members of the Committee on Agriculture to judge on the issues related to agriculture, and also with the nutrition is undisputed from the point of view of the search for a solution with a practical guidance and practicable, farmers and consumers concerned can implement and understand.
 So much for the positive aspects.
 In my opinion, is a legitimate right to information must be satisfied.
 I would ask, Madam President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries and on my own behalf, to send the Parliament's condolences to the families of the victims and to the local authorities of both Britain and Marín, Galicia, where are the majority of victims.
 (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 Are there any objections to taking the tabling of this oral amendment?
 This is precisely the way the rapporteur has explained things.
 The majority of their technical proposals deserve to be supported enthusiastically, for example those relating to food safety, the decommissioning of nuclear power plants of first generation, the protection of the environment, the fight against social dumping, essential to the code of conduct for companies in the West when working in the East, etc., and the task is enormous also absolute priority.
 At the same time, to overcome the barriers are considerable, especially at budgetary level.
 Enlargement to thirteen countries not only change the geopolitical context of the European Union, but also alter its structure, because the total population will increase (+ 28%), but at the same time, will the number of disadvantaged regions "".
 In this context, we must bear in mind that, due to their weight, a strong economic and social sector competitive agricultural and food will have a crucial for the success of the process of transformation and restructuring of the candidate countries.
 In this respect, I would like to see the outermost regions, between 6 of which each 7 are still in the Group of the 10 poorest of the EU, to benefit from the Structural Funds, not only on the basis of a single criterion of GDP, but also on the basis of geographical and demographic indicators, especially social.
 As we reject it, for the sake of the French, cannot, in all conscience, accept its extension to the countries and the peoples of this, only released from the Communist dictatorship, who cannot yet know the trap technocratic and totalitarian in wishing to fall.
 Because we content ourselves with the national reports and, as soon as possible, a resolution, but full of content.
 The current system, with subsidies, subsidies and quotas must be replaced by the free trade and the adequacy of the markets.
 The importance and the extent of the problems raised by enlargement is not incompatible with the double language on which it has been used within the European Union.
 For me to speak of enlargement does not recognise the membership or not membership of some countries to Europe.
 Our neighbouring country with determination has endeavoured over the last ten years in order to meet the criteria for accession.
 Latvia has its place in this Chamber, not only because its progress overall, this right to give him credit "essential" confidence to complete a successful negotiation of this kind, but, above all, and above all, because in Europe is at home.
 Gawronski with this report and I think that Poland is the state, among all those which have applied for accession, which deserves more than others, without our support, given that the most important initiatives in Poland, would not have fallen Communism and today we are talking here about this problem.
 This may not be so obvious to the population, which remains largely eurosceptic.
 I urge that this signal, Prague to receive this request, this request to establish a dialogue and, to reply to him and ensure, together with this House, so that it is possible to overcome the legacy of a nationalist was.
 I welcome the Wiersma report on Slovakia's application for accession to the European Union and I share most of the conclusions he reaches the rapporteur.
 I am very happy to take this opportunity to address a welcome in particular the elderly and pensioners of the Bulgarian Republic, as stated in the report by Mr.
 If Romania continues to progress, and the European Union adapted its institutional structure and its policies in order to cope with enlargement, I see no reason why that Romania should not be admitted to the European Union.
 Whatever solution is taken with regard to the settlers, and is one of the difficult issues, together with the return of land on both sides, it is too hard if there are some caveats.
 Unfortunately, some of the points that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy leaks in the draft report on the request for the accession of Cyprus to the European Union does not make matters easier.
 This task will not be easy, if we consider the lack of goodwill on the part of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot.
 Stenzel report (A5-0243 / 2000)
 Unfortunately, I experienced a slight food poisoning in the European Parliament.
 For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the proposal to ban the dissolution of the European Commission.
 We must urge the ASEM countries in the present resolution to press the military regime in Burma to restore democracy.
 We are partial in our approach and implementation.
 We cannot afford to be pusilánimes.
 Some important aspects of the regulation are: firstly, the regulation of the burden of proof.
 Equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the EU.
 That is why we need an anti-discrimination legislation.
 In part, as a result, we have before us a great deal of legal and technical amendments that seek to ensure a level of equal treatment against discrimination on grounds of race, on the one hand, and on the grounds of religion, sexual orientation, disability, age, and on the other hand.
 I had to make an effort of balance, moderation and good technical and legal reflects his report - in my judgement - these qualities.
 I also believe that the cases of discrimination are not as many as to warrant legislation.
 In the action programme there are not enough funds to replace this work is taking place in the fifth framework programme and will, I hope, will be followed up in all the other programmes framework, but we need to ensure that are compatible.
 Everyone agrees that we need to fight against discrimination, but opinions differ as to how, to what extent and at what methods.
 I had the opportunity, in the Commission, indignarme against the fact that could also be outside experts and NGOs however have things to say.
 We are also very satisfied with the provision of the directive underlines that equality of treatment for disabled also means also expected of companies to make adjustments in the workplace.
 Only in this way will effectively combating discrimination in all areas of human coexistence in Europe.
 After all, as the anglosajonas teach us great democracies, racism and discrimination are fighting with liberal democracy and not with the restriction or the gradual erosion of freedom of opinion and expression, association and economic.
 We have a proposal which raises homosexuality in the same category as the Holy marriage.
 Confirming that the positions of the European Union to specific situations caused by their inhabitants with regard to discrimination and equal treatment.
 I would also like to comment on the issue of the exclusion of religion.
 There he has expressed his concern about the possible interpretation of the recitals relating to Article 1, which, once again, may seem unclear, but make a distinction between the sexual orientation and behaviour.
 So there is no hierarchy of discrimination.
 In New Caledonia preference is given on the basis of the cromática skin.
 The first positive element of the directive is the universal approach since it perceives the treatment of discrimination, something that is particularly important if we are to have a proper implementation of the directive.
 So those who come here to say that Europe must not adopt a directive in the values which we all want to defend, be confused.
 We must not interfere in these achievements we reached with so many efforts.
 Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task.
 Experience has also shown that the promotion of legislative measures in the fight against discrimination is essential, but it is not enough.
 We must avoid red tape, absurd that the only thing that will be to reduce Europe to a purely mercenary entity, politically correct, but meaningless.
 I believe that this Parliament has respects as if it were a Christmas tree the little advanced legislation that the Commission wanted to put on the table.
 I would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs, Mr Mann and Mr Cashman, for this excellent report.
 To accept the amendments which seek to highlight the importance of preventing and combating discrimination.
 The second category is intended to clarify the text of the Commission proposal and the third covers a large number of amendments that seek to adapt the proposal for the directive on the race, adopted last June.
 In particular, Amendments Nos 9 and 10, 20 propose the deletion of the reference to the discrimination on the grounds of racial and ethnic origin.
 I cannot accept the references in the Parliament Amendments Nos 21 and 45 to natural and legal persons, as well as the unofficial groupings, because this proposal on employment is only applicable to individuals.
 The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
 We cannot expect a public support for the establishment of peace operations, if our troops are exposed to die as a result of bullets from weapons that we ourselves have supplied.
 In my own country, to possess a escopeta would need a licence, but not for instalarme as vendor of weapons in a shed, from my own garden.
 Another important point is the ban on the export of equipment, promotion and marketing and know-how used to inflict torture.
 Having said this, I would naturally like to congratulate our colleague Mr Titley on his excellent report.
 We must extend our examination, on the one hand, in addition to the issues of binding force, there are also other aspects outside the strict equipment for military use, such as the own disarmament and the increase in the efficiency of the body of police and customs authorities, and then, on the other hand, the applicant countries for accession, as has just been mentioned by Mr Wiersma.
 The system of control over the money is certainly more difficult to circumvent the provisions on the arms trade.
 The aim of the annual report is to discover the possible improvements.
 The European Union is currently examining the possibility of continuing the project after its expiry in November of this year.
 We have defined a methodology and indicators and will be presented at the next Council 'research'.
 Thank you, Commissioner.
 With regard to the problems of SMEs, of course we have seen that in the framework programme, SMEs have their part, as foreseen in the budgetary decisions.
 That is, at least, which seems colegirse the debate on the budget in Greece; the fact is that many invoke the views of the European Union is that the case?
 With regard to the pluridisciplinaridad, I share your view.
 The first is that specifically mentioned in his report the EU participation in national programmes.
 It would not be possible to talk of European research area if we only represent 5% of this research.
 Thank you, Mr Busquin.
 On the one hand, and after the effort made to fully commit funds at the end of 1999, petitions in body at the beginning of this year for the financing of new projects were necessarily very low.
 But I repeat that Portugal did the right thing in the previous period, and I simply want to point out, the figures for 26 September, is that the money really committed by Portugal and for the new period (I am from Commissioner, only a year ago) achieve 2.6%.
 Question No 2 by (H-0730 / 00):
 Finally, the establishment of a high level of contributions uses on mineral oils and consumption will not lead to a no-cumplimiento of Community provisions on competition.
 Secondly, as Mr MacCormick knows, in those cases in which the Member States promote by means of tax sector of industry, infringe the rules on state aid, in this case the fiscal state aid, which amounts to a subsidy.
 For example, nuclear energy is a case very clear and timely.
 Subject: budget line on minority languages the budgetary resources that the European Union spends since 1983 in favour of minority languages, until a constant increase in the year 1995, which reached their maximum amount, EUR 4 million.
 (DE) Mr President, Members of Parliament, you are no doubt aware that the Structural Funds - and this is a novedad- spent many resources for cultural activities, because I insisted, Michel Barnier, in that they are not only invest in roads and airports but also in people.
 So that next year the Commission will not make new financial commitments in this regard.
 In relation to the specific proposal for financing, it is not possible for me to adopt a position, because we must respect the normal procedures.
 - (SV) I thought in many alternatives.
 And it is a reality which we must face, because we are talking about millions of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe.
 What the rules relating to the treatment of products of hunting, for example, also apply to raise the meat used for their own use?
 If these rules were enforced meat that consume hunters, would be a disaster for the hunting of bureaucratic raise.
 When we have completed this report, I intend to present proposals to improve the transport of animals and the problem of inadequate compliance with the time limits for the days in the coming weeks.
 At the meeting that I welcomed with the Group of the Greens has already discussed this issue.
 Our question was clear: what measures the Commission is taking the too?
 General product safety requires also producers to provide consumers with information about the risks.
 The case of Maryam ayubi is extremely worrying.
 Question No 14 by (H-0745 / 00):
 The attitude of the EU in this ministerial meeting in Vientiane and if, in fact, be held or at what level must be represented in the EU it will depend on the evolution of the situation in Burma here in December.
 One final observation.
 Elections are an important step for the population of Kosovo participate in the administration of their communities.
 I can tell you that the development of these elections has been more democratic, better than the elections in our own countries, in which I have participated have on many occasions been or observer.
 But what we saw as a principle and not, in any way, as the end of the process.
 The report calls for better control and more closed on the arms trade and for greater transparency.
 Now I find that every year increase contracts for weapons and weapons components.
 We cannot take real decisions based on information and realities apparent.
 The arrangement by which have been kept together in the same directorate-general should be subject to review.
 Although these institutions must have the option to appoint an internal auditor, is enough to impose certain minimum requirements for auditing the financial controller.
 This proposal does not count on the unanimous approval of this Parliament as the Commissioner well knows.
 Therefore, we have no objection to the creation of an independent internal audit service, to which we give the green light to the report by Mr van Hulten.
 Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
 Modernising the administration is urgently necessary in our opinion.
 An independent audit is essential to avoid mistakes.
 The money must be spent in the future more so close to the objectives and more effective, and, of course, also be better to ensure that funds are earmarked for the purpose for which it has allocated by the budgetary authority.
 With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like to mention very briefly: the Commission accepts the introduction of additional recital.
 Therefore, I would like to thank you for your suggestions and your advice.
 I would like to summarise the proposals in this report which seem to me particularly important and more workable, first, the creation of a group of experts composed of personalities of recognised standing, appointed by the Member States, to help establish parameters media minimum protection of minors; second, the creation of a code of self-regulation between all operators in the sector; third, the possibility of promoting and become accessible filter systems for both the television and the Internet.
 Unfortunately, I cannot subscribe to the requests of the Liberals.
 This remains essentially the responsibility of the legislation of the Member States, which, however, does not exclude the possibility of a consensual agreement at European level on certain indicative values, through dialogue with all the parties involved.
 However, and equality in other circumstances, I think that it is up to parents dissuade their children to see this type of programme at home.
 Parents need special aid in this area, which must include the following: common parameters for the protection of minors media throughout the territory of the European Union; the installation and the possibility of having filter systems at affordable prices; legal provisions relating to the protection of minors and the responsibility of the media, companies and providers of public and private sector.
 Then I am surprised, and this is a euphemism, to hear some say, during the debates in committee, there is no proof that the influence which may be harmful to children, violence on television in all its forms.
 With regard to the introduction of a code of self-regulation, it should be noted, particularly from a technical point of view, that certain Member States have already introduced codes broadcasters adjustment sets which should allow parents cut off the flow.
 The debate is closed.
 In particular, my report replaces the valuable generalisations international for a referral back, in fact, decisions to the Member States.
 That would be the least to give this area of freedom, which is a fundamental right of every citizen of Europe.
 There are still, Mr President, that things have not been paid since 1996.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Evans and Mr Mantovani, for the work they have done.
 I commend this report to the House and I would urge support for the amendments tabled by Mr Evans.
 Our human resources are our only future in a world where knowledge is what better.
 Will not solve the problems with Green Papers, White Papers, red or black, but with a specific action.
 But the European Parliament, and that is its role, Parliament pressed for researchers were despite everything included in the same text.
 Today we visit at a crucial time for the future of European integration.
 However, we know that the process has not yet finished and that its inconclusión threats to their vitality.
 If we do not say now, in this sensitive and tumultuosa stage of European and world history, when what shall we do?
 None of us can now claim to know exactly when and on what sequence achieved these objectives, but we all know that deseándolos fervently hope and believe in them, we will have gone the halfway stage.
 We need to ensure that women can benefit from the work involved, without fail to prevent them from reoccurring inequalities in the more traditional sectors: a part-time jobs less specialized, sometimes not elected, precarious contracts and difficulties of access to the management posts.
 Will be submitted to the Council a proposal for indicators to measure the progress made in this respect.
 Finally, in a nutshell, the fourth pillar devoted to equal opportunities reaffirms the integrated approach of equality with the gender mainstreaming and specific guidelines.
 I am thinking, in particular, the violence suffered by them, one of the priority issues of my government action and also mobilizing in particular - you know.
 We know that the measures to reconcile family life and professional particularly conducive to women, although there are still a number of studies on the current situation of the family and the role that women play in the same, that it is no longer the traditional, since that society has changed a great deal and, at the same time, the family structure.
 Sometimes, even colleagues in this Parliament believe that exist, but that is not the case.
 I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the equal opportunities begins at home.
 This position seems embarrassing and ambiguous and I believe deserves consideration for projects which are before us, because it is not certain that with all this desemboquemos in practice.
 In this area there is no equality.
 The image of the Union, the woman who discovered over the pages of our report, our directives, not square with Danish those women who are opposed to the euro in their majority.
 In this respect, I think that the report insists that significant numbers have to achieve a balance in all sectors of society, for example in the labour market.
 That is why I believe that this is a missed opportunity in this report because the marriage and the family are completely sidelined.
 It is something which we should take into consideration the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
 We have heard that the previous presidency of the Council reestructuró first the Ministry of equal opportunities in their country and then to eliminate it.
 Salaries means of women are still below, on average, in almost 28% of men, which contributes to that women are the poor majority of the population and make their participation in social and political life.
 This is excellent.
 In Europe today we see an impoverishment of women employees and also in France, where the 15% of them live, at the end of the day, with less than 3.650 French francs per month.
 Not all countries have managed to follow his example and I hope that the example of France fructificando end in other countries.
 Obviously, the history of women is very long.
 We must help really candidates to be at the level of the acquis communautaire.
 But need your help.
 That is not the case, but it is a good text and, after long before and after a wide-ranging debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs chose not to table amendments.
 The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, after a long debate, felt that this was not sensible to legal uncertainty for six years, that three years, which is the term established, is a more reasonable deadline so that, with the appropriate means and a medium-sized diligence, we can establish whether or not there has been irregularities in a statement.
 This is Amendment No 15, relating to fraud.
 The objective of reaching a simplified but above all communication of high quality with a regulation that is sufficiently flexible, with an improvement in the procedure recaudatorio and with a greater sense of the provisions in the field of customs formalities, responds to one of the requirements of the single market and it has been achieved, to such an extent that even in many countries have based it quickly in order to participate in international trade.
 Palacio, their effort and the interest with which you have worked in the drafting of this report.
 Welcome
 I hope that this does not change the outcome of the vote which will be expressed, but the truth is that we must check the translation of the French version.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the Evans report.
 It is recognised that the knowledge of foreign languages is a prerequisite for mobility.
 We also feel that the Member States must decide for themselves, who wish to apply taxes.
 I regret that both a much-needed proposal to introduce a period of prescription to retain the documentation for a limited period has not obtained a majority of votes.
 During the negotiations on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we welcome the inclusion of Article 13 on discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, disability not philosophical sectarian assertions, age and sexual orientation.
 My final point concerns the budget for this programme, that is to say, 98,4 million, a sum which is, of course, inadequate for the actions planned.
 The arguments put forward in this amendment, it appears clear that its purpose is to intervene in the age of the provisions in force in the Member States, which are, however, perfectly justified on the grounds of psychological development and have no impact on the life.
 In my opinion, well also everything stipulated in the new Article 12 (b).
 With regard to the belief or religion, the EPLP welcomes the principle of protection in this area.
 - (SV) The Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a directive on equality in the workplace.
 But this can only says something of a staff of the internal audit service and none of the financial importance or the usefulness of this service.
 The EU has decided to put in place a common military capacity to fulfil the objectives of the so-called Petersberg tasks (fight against the crisis and conflict resolution outside the EU territory and), however, does not have a common defence policy.
 The world is safer without arms.
 With this resolution is not to reduce radically arms sales to promote a policy of disarmament, but only to ensure more regularlas the profits of industrial groups.
 The communication from the Commission recognises the problem but not because it is ofuscada proposes concrete measures in the logic of the liberalisation of the market and of competitiveness, and that no proposal concerns the harsh reality, especially for children, the profligacy of multinational companies which, in their pursuit of profit, ignore the impact of its programmes and products and transferring all the responsibility to the parents, moreover, inviting them to consume new products to protect their children.
 Like the rapporteur, I believe that the measures to protect young people from harmful and violent programmes should not be limited to traditional television, but to apply all the media.
 With an average of three hours, is the most important human activity, and after the dream for adults, after the work.
 Furthermore, women are often posts' flexible '; temporary contracts or low salaries are typical of the sectors that employ mainly women.
 We are still falling as the first victims of cuts in public expenditure, the privatisations in the area of health, the right to medical and pharmaceutical care - much more on the right to information and prevention programmes.
 B5-0792 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left, on the crisis situation in Peru.
 Mr President, in fact I would instead of holding a debate on Latin America with regard to any urgent matter abordáramos this issue following a discussion prudent in the committees.
 We must ensure that Peru to reach the goal with candidate countries which are equal to the challenge and be able to respond to the demand of the Peruvian people a renewal policy and a substantial democracy.
 The joint debate is closed.
 However, we know that Afghanistan is not far Afghanistan, which is the largest producer of world opiáceos and, therefore, we know and we can imagine the role played by these mafias policies, which are not only policies in the expansion of trade in drugs.
 Urges the Commission to adopt humanitarian aid programmes aimed at the Afghan people, not to forget one in the territory.
 The suffering caused this conflict is tremendous.
 For years, a budget line financed programmes of mine clearance and prevention.
 Paciotti, I can assure you that today I shall ask the Commission what has happened and what is going to happen with the resources for the clearance of mines.
 B5-0794 / 2000 by Mr Linkohr, Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Fava, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the kidnapping of a Spanish in Colombia jesuita participant in the negotiations with the guerrilla movement;
 Unfortunately, all we would not have to speak of Colombia.
 The Commission has already expressed its willingness to coordinate the measures of this package in the next few days will allocate substantial resources to this end.
 So, once again, to apply two weights and two measures, and I believe that we must deploring it.
 The attitude adopted by the Albanian opposition, particularly because it is incomprehensible that refuses to accept a solution essential deliberately designed to remedy an Albanian problem in Macedonia.
 I think that is something quite remarkable that the Macedonians within their own country reach agreements with each other.
 However, the government, who has shown enormous courage to find a solution to the problem of universities and many other matters, needs clear indications positive as well as a strong support in case, the consequences for peace in the region can be harmful.
 The PHARE resources earmarked for the year 2000 in the framework of the national programme can also be used to help the university during the next year, that is to say, the academic year 2001-2002.
 I would like to point out that already today all the Greek Members of the European Parliament have reacted to this situation.
 And all this relates to Greece, which has the greatest maritime sector throughout the European Union, basically concerns the safety of the entire shipping in the whole of the Union.
 In recent years, in our own waters, have submitted many lives at sea, and not only in major accidents but also ferrys too often among our fishing community.
 On the contrary, it exploits the innocent victims to promote broader objectives of shipowners.
 We must bear in mind that this is also a matter of the credibility of the European Union.
 In conclusion, I would like to underline that the Commission is firmly convinced that the problem of the European legal provisions on the safety of passenger ships must be a priority of the concerns of the European Union, and that is to ensure a strict and uniform application of the same throughout the Community.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have arrived a little late for reasons which you know well, to make a very brief statement on the two issues which are on the agenda: the situation in Belgrade, and in the ex-república of Yugoslavia in general, and the situation in the Middle East.
 Commissioner Verheugen is going to speak, as did Mr Solana, on the two issues that concern us this afternoon, that is to say the Middle East and the elections in Yugoslavia.
 We must be prepared to meet this promise on respect the will of the people.
 Madam President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, taking part in this debate with reservations, because we wanted to Parliament apareciese solely as a judge authorised to launch an anathema against this or that, at a time when, after the hopes so strongly alentadas here a month ago, we are faced with the tragic consequences of this new outburst of violence in the Middle East.
 Madam President, my speech today is not based on a number of analysis at a distance, but in my own experiences of the last week by chance, since I was in Jerusalem and in the Gaza Strip when these disturbances took place there.
 Although I am against any violence, cannot be dealt with in the same yardstick violence Israeli and Palestinian violence.
 I would ask Parliament, at this critical moment, to issue a declaration of support for the brave people who today have stood up for freedom in the streets of Belgrade, by echoing the support that we Europeans, not so many years ago we give to those in other capital also fighting for their freedom.
 Europeans, Madam President, would certainly very inspired if the flight had collected the ball that we launched here as the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
 The position of Jerusalem is the complicated in the negotiations.
 For years, it has managed to mislead the people of your country with its propaganda machine and the brutal repression of the media and, unfortunately, has also been tempted to many people in the Western world by creating a false picture of reality.
 While the drama concludes, it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of the united Europe and free, supporting the masses around the Yugoslav parliament and help to achieve Mr Kostunica and play its mandate.
 It is precisely its position so harsh makes us fear the worst at the same time - and current events reinforce these sentences were drafted a few hours ago.
 I wonder whether the Commissioner is already looking into the steps required to make it clear that we regard as the legitimate Kostunica really an elected representative of the Serbian people, and as the real partner with whom the European Union wants to speak from today.
 The European Parliament wishes to express its full solidarity at this historic moment in the tyranny wavers triumphs and democracy.
 The next item is the joint debate on the report (A5-0237 / 2000) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council decision on amending Decision 2000 / 24 / EC so as to extend the Community guarantee granted by the European Investment Bank loans for projects in Croatia (COM (2000) 289 - C5-0336 / 2000 - 2000 / 0122 (CNS)).
 I welcome the new political direction to be opened in that country, following the presidential and legislative elections.
 Between the European Union and Croatia carries out its duties, among others, a group of consultants whose mission is to offer Croatia its experience and technical assistance in the framework of negotiations for the agreements of normalisation of relations.
 Let us not forget that until recently, Croatia was an example of a book of privatisation programme completely failed, of which only benefited a few this process should be supported in its entirety.
 The amount of EUR 250 million in the form of a loan of the EIB for the 2000-2007 period we are debating will not be a milestone, but will support and promotion.
 That is why it is not totally correct to speak on the report on 'democratisation'.
 When Croatia and Slovakia managed for the first time an independence apparent, acted as servants of the Hitler regime.
 We could also, of course, have considered the issue of the Croatian application and guarantee the issue in the context of the debate yesterday evening, and the situation in Belgrade.
 When it appears that Milosevic has fled and that the will of the people has prevailed, we hope that the actions to establish a partnership and a normal relationship between Serbia and this European democracies are delayed for only a few days ago.
 I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 6 October 2000.
 (The House rose and observed a minute 's silence)
 My question is: who is entitled to speak on behalf of the European Parliament on such a statute?
 I would ask you, Madam President, that you will make every effort to speed up the procedure under way in the Committee on Petitions on a letter of protest that have submitted over thirty collective and social NGOs against this situation, in which it has been breached violating Community regulations on radioprotection.
 The autopsia practised in Georgia has clearly shown that this was a murder possible with torture.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to take a great step towards our dream - which, incidentally, I do not share.
 This is the basic law and the basis for any other legislation on genetically through engineering.
 Obviously, it is going from one of metedura leg to another.
 (The sitting was suspended at 5.40 p.m. p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.)
 The next item is the joint debate on the report (A5-0291 / 2000) by Mrs van lacker, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the Council [COM (2000) 379 - 0508 / 2000 - 2000 / 2219 (COS), the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the agenda socio-política.
 Thirdly, just one question: to emphasise the importance of this open method of coordination does not mean that this method will replace the social legislation, because we have also set of social rights in Europe, we must have the courage to draw the minimal social standards and it is essential that there should be a social legislation with a view to the single European market.
 In our view, also support the social dialogue and cooperation with civil society and especially with women ’ s associations of the countries which are preparing its annexation to the European family, since we must also achieve a uniform development to continue the steps and the logic of the rest of Europe.
 The areas of action listed in the communication of the Commission have also been the subject of an overall agreement.
 I remember, at this stage of my speech, which will be held in Biarritz European a seminar on this subject, which I will chair, on 4 and 5 December.
 As regards the fight against exclusion, we have made much progress to define, on 17 October, in the Employment and Social Policy Council on "," appropriate objectives for the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which will serve as the basis for national action plans.
 I have heard in some circles that, having read the report, are in accordance with the diagnosis, but not with the formula.
 Technological development and the new methods of organisation are also in favour of a more flexible cooperation where go on objectives and to achieve results and by a less rigid regulation.
 We must seek out on that side, in our opinion, the arcaísmo those who complain that they expect a market without obstacles is the best of all possible worlds.
 Certainly, this has contributed to reducing the discontent among workers in our country and increasing investments in the country from outside.
 On the other hand, the method used seems more debatable.
 If we are talking about a charter of rights and looking for a European constitution cannot be estrábicos, but that we must say that we have to take all the necessary steps, although this demand legislation more attentive I do not think that Mrs.
 I would like to point out critically the lack of initiatives on the new challenges in the workplace protection, on the participation of workers and in labour relations.
 Mr President, I should also like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner and the Minister, Mrs Péry, for this presentation of the social policy agenda.
 As we know, the Conservatives are opposed to these points I - our group attaches particular importance.
 The third issue is enlargement.
 The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
 The Commission measures must be supplemented with studies on access to the individual health systems and systems of social security and pensions, about the shortcomings in the organization and, perhaps, also on the general reduction of working hours.
 In this way, women feel Europe closer to Europe, and also won with the interesting and innovative ideas expressed through its relationship with this programme.
 We expect an annual report of the President of the Commission within the framework of a debate which takes place every year in the European Parliament.
 I am also delighted that there is provision for a better distribution of care of children in order to facilitate the balance between professional life and family life.
 My group will take this into account in the final vote.
 (The President cut the speaker off)
 I welcome the new approach by the Commission, very well thought-out and the proposal for a decision to the 2001-2005 programme.
 I believe that the large number of amendments adopted common shows the feelings of the European Commission and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
 On the one hand, over the past year I have received several requests for companies which have a certain sense of powerlessness following certain decisions on mergers, especially in connection with cases where they had need for appealing against the decision of the Commission to the Court of First Instance.
 I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner when we can expect to be implemented effectively and efficiently, a public register of state aid, and also on when they become a reality long promised the table of results.
 I should also like to say to Commissioner Monti that it is important that in the next report we find a rather more extensive section devoted to the financial services sector.
 What I said was not only applies to the area of energy policy, but also for all the other areas.
 Commissioner Monti, on behalf of the Italian radicals, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work he has done on both reports which give a positive opinion both on her work and on the staff of the Directorate-General for Competition.
 I stress this because the market cannot regulate everything and in this respect we must exist and can be unrestricted competition.
 Mr President, today is not a matter of dispute, and I certainly do not intend to do, that the aid alter the conditions of competition and harmful constitute one element that encourages the inefficiency of companies.
 To hear you deny the fact that aid have decreased over the period 1994-1998, when the Commission itself acknowledges that reduction, has at least been rather strange.
 And, of course, Mr President, although my opinion xxix relates to the Commission's report on competition policy, we can now make looking to the past, but nothing more than to learn for the future.
 Mr President, in the time available to me, I would like to discuss three points: the modernisation of Community law in the field of competition, the activity developed in 1999 in connection with the rules of competition and the issue of state aid.
 The Commission has followed and particularly firm action against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position.
 Mr Rapkay, for the Commission has been very important to have the support of the European Parliament in the search for its competition policy and I do not believe that that support will disappear.
 This mechanism can be activated or at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which remains in force during the third phase of economic and monetary union for those countries who, today, are the subject of an exception, namely Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
 In the future, the recourse to the capital market should remain the only possible option.
 I therefore ask that the report in its current version receives the conformity of the House and that can be used in the field of material multiplication of the vine in the internal market.
 Today, its review is necessary given the evolution of the phytosanitary regulations and the scientific and technical progress made, in particular with regard to the increase in vitro fertilization is concerned.
 Furthermore, with this principle of precaution, I refer to the possibility of genetic modifications means, for example, to reduce the use of intensive treatment plant health inspections on the other hand, in the sense of the amendments tabled by Mrs van caution.
 In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to observe the precautionary principle, both in spirit and in letter, if unfortunately articles and amendments that I have just mentioned are not removed, we need to stick to the view of Marianne Isler Béguin, and therefore of the Environment Committee, and vote in favour of its abolition.
 Mr President, if I may, Commissioner, could you give us its opinion on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy - is Amendment No 1.
 The only point on which we could discuss is whether or not I note should be taken as the French Government gave me the resolution of languor the mandate of Mr Le Pen.
 I must remind you that the vote later, at 12.30 p.m.
 In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic about a solution to the civil judicial cooperation.
 The preparatory group will play its full role until 19 November, the date of the next meeting at ministerial level.
 We needed this climate vivificante, as has been said by Mr Moscovici and I also felt, at the level of the Heads of State or Government, a very serious sense of collective responsibility and historic in a historic moment in the construction of Europe.
 Simply, ladies and gentlemen, will ensure that from now on, as these matters of the qualified majority, so that we do not find more here the spirit or the climate in Biarritz.
 The small countries are not on the orders of the largest countries of the European Union!
 I would be grateful if the President-in-Office of the Council to clarify this point.
 On the one hand, the presence of President Kostunica was an historic event.
 Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, there are profound disagreements on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council, as you have pointed out.
 I believe that we are going in the opposite direction.
 Those who remain outside the cooperation actually enjoy the same freedom that passengers seats back of a car.
 I am not here, nor by the honourable Member, ingerirme for home affairs in German, but I believe that this position is deeply coherent and is, moreover, the direction that the Commission wants, if I am not mistaken.
 We have begun to exchange views on this matter, it follows that all Member States want the maintenance of the ceiling after enlargement.
 I believe that it will not be the case.
 The first is this: we have sometimes had the impression that in Biarritz had an obsession with the debate between the small and large states.
 From this point of view, I believe that it is not enough to say that we must safeguard the Community method.
 Similarly, when the candidate countries accede, each Member State must be able to maintain a Commissioner or deputy chief.
 The wording of Article 93 is all the more dramatic as successful, once the first wave of enlargement, it will be impossible to move further towards the qualified majority.
 We need to convince the citizens of these countries to clear the merits of any new European Treaty.
 Imagine that the fears nourished generations could give new shocks without the final appeasement prelude to reconciliation, would have been ignore the workings of this crisis.
 I also intranquiliza the slightest correspondence on the issue that Parliament has requested on democratisation.
 Those guilty of this are rather those who advocate made major reforms before enlargement.
 On the one hand, the head of the Israeli Government's decision to freeze the peace negotiations by violence in the region and concentrate its efforts on the creation of a concentration of government with the leader of the opposition, Mr.
 We note with great satisfaction the victory of the Yugoslav people and the election of President Kostunica as.
 I advise Mr Barón Crespo that Italians ask his colleagues to explain why they are in government in Italy with a Communist Party declaradamente and why they are preparing to participate in political elections with another declaradamente Communist party, the Communist Party of overhaul.
 On the contrary, in this area would have to make progress in the application of the codecision procedure.
 The Commission, which has the chance to make its decisions by a simple majority, finds itself in a situation that is more favourable to give this momentum in the future.
 The Union does not need now visionaries who have the telescope because in the year 2030, but that needs leaders who are capable of understanding the problems that will bring about the completion of enlargement in a period of 3 to 8 years, so as to provide answers to them.
 This, then, is a task that has not fallen open and has not been imposed from above.
 The debate is closed.
 Without this fundamental reference, in the best case we understand each other and, at worst, we kill between us.
 Democracy has improved in Europe but, for its part, the European democracy is sick.
 Today, 24 October 2000, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament says something very simple, and I say that as high: the European Constitution? yes, you can achieve that, yes, we want.
 In other words, the same it expresses the view that the islands in itself is a criterion enough.
 What I concentrándome in the essential points of the outstanding report by President Gil-Robles, of which I would simply like to say that I think it is excellent.
 In the first place, the simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
 I am not going to go further, because we are not here - in any case, I am not here - to discuss the report of the Institute of Florence.
 According to the information - I shall be technical, forgive me - that has been communicated to the Presidency, I believe that a clear majority of the language versions, contrary to the Italian version, only refers to the implementation of cohesion policy, the least favoured islands, and not to the islands in general.
 Mr Duhamel, no doubt you will agree with me to say that if there is success in Nice, there will be no room, at least, there will be no credibility to a reflection on the future of European integration, at least in the current framework.
 The aforementioned European constitution must also establish a clear distribution of tasks between the Member States and the European Union and incorporate the dynamics of European integration in those areas, such as the common foreign and security policy, which is essential in a common action.
 They could also be necessary to overcome blockages pollutants.
 Note is the clear distribution of competences and the principle of subsidiarity.
 As is known, in the various Member States and between the various social forces are very different opinions on the subject.
 Unfortunately, the end goal of a European Constitution would be exactly the opposite, and it is clear that we cannot approve it.
 In fact, in the home strengthened European peoples will be invited to the Bureau, possibly military, monetary and fiscal, then the other peoples, which will in fact.
 It is clear that the second version is incorrect because, first, in one way or another structural funds cover the financially disadvantaged regions and, secondly, because if this was not the correct interpretation, hablaríamos on the adoption of the nº30 statement.
 Mr President, I would like to devote my small sixty seconds in the report by Olivier Duhamel, who is a good report, because it dares to say things clearly, and the fine words of our rapporteur has convinced us definitively from this a short while ago.
 In my opinion, the unity of Europe can only be political.
 It seems to us that the new Constitution should be about to enter into force for the next European elections.
 Consequently, the term 'least developed' applies both to the island regions and the rest of the regions and, according to the proposal by Mr Barnier, what we have here is a modification of the Italian text of the Treaty, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
 The debate is closed.
 As my colleague said that I was going to vote against this amendment lapses.
 Mr President, what is called for here is a formula for chaos.
 I welcome the adoption by Parliament of the Trakatellis report, it has to be set high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives.
 If the European parliamentary immunity is autonomous, the French authorities should have requested the removal of Mr Le Pen.
 I am particularly disappointed by the vote of the European Parliament on the report on the proliferation of vineyards.
 For some, alcohol is as tobacco and drugs, a product which damages much to those who consume and people who are around her other; on the contrary, they mainly as a source of employment and something that we can make a great deal of money.
 The rapporteur broadly welcomes the proposals of the Commission's White Paper on this subject, but it is worried about the possible consequences of the reform, which seeks primarily to decentralise the application of competition rules.
 - (FR) Although, in the debate yesterday evening, I congratulated Mr Jonathan Evans on his work, I must express my profound disagreement with the entry of excessively liberal approach, even ultraliberal, of his report.
 The Agency for industrial development of Ireland has been reorganising its orientation to achieve half of the new jobs as a result of projects in areas in the new Objective 1 region in the next three years.
 State intervention, the funding and other economic or tax incentives, on occasions, come to balance this situation before the alarido something that cause the consequences of this policy.
 (The sitting was suspended at the 14.06 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
 The situation in October 2000, when it will not be long before taking a decision on the figures for the budget 2001, is the following.
 The Council, however, did not hesitate to reduce agricultural spending in 555 million in total.
 Moreover, we also feel, as is logical, which must not be simply create 400 additional posts, in addition to the existing ones.
 I would advise the Council to follow our example.
 The administration of this House should, therefore, be at the service of the Members and not the other way round.
 The Court of Auditors is the least concerns causes us at the moment.
 Finally, we must also examine the Ombudsman's budget.
 On the contrary, we believe that we should strengthen research, particularly with a view to the accession of the candidate countries.
 We also propose that we continue to report regularly to Parliament.
 And when there is an agreement on legislative matters, culture or social environment - the Commissioner is right to acknowledge that I met the Commissioner for budgets, the Finance Ministers and the members of the Committee on Budgets to pray together, so that there is committing a financial nonsense.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your reception.
 Incidentally, like the margins for manoeuvre, particularly with regard to the limits of heading 3 and heading 4, the Council wants to give Parliament ultimately responsible, in connection with these non-compulsory expenditure, the opportunity to express its priorities to return without calling into question the Council, therefore, I shall simply in the most salient points of the Council's draft budget.
 These two issues are often recurring in the discussions between Parliament and the Council could provide in this area and that, if we are not careful, tensions between both branches of the budgetary authority.
 The situation is similar when it comes to the structural policy.
 The outcome of the conciliation procedure this summer was also satisfactory, as has already been pointed out by Mr Colom I Naval, specifically in the sense that, in future, also extend the provision of information to Parliament in connection with the legal bases with repercussions on expenditure.
 Let me remind you that in the financial perspective which was adopted last year will only be envisaged for the Balkans 1.850 million for the period until 2006.
 I would ask you once again to examine this proposal - the Commission is on the mesa- preconcebidos without trial and that there is also a possibility.
 This material was, of course, useful for the preparation of the budget for 2001 and for the granting of discharge in 1999.
 Despite the fact that, as a Member of the same, I very much appreciate the work of this Commission and despite the fact that I have great respect for the work of the rapporteurs, in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I cannot fail to stress two amendments that our retabling now before the plenary and that remain important though they have reduced the figures.
 With these measures we propose to ensure that judicial control back to operate fully, to restore confidence in the legal security within the European Union and consolidate its nature of Community law.
 The removal of this initiative on the part of the Commission, without any replaced by another, was clearly contrary to the political will of the Lisbon Summit and the priorities of this House.
 A decision was staggering and many of us had the feeling that this very important programme had to be simply a ball in a football match between the Committee on Budgets and the Commission.
 The third issue is the common agricultural policy as now appears in the draft budget.
 If employment is the political priority of the Union, fisheries, as an economic sector more, cannot remain on the sidelines.
 I am particularly pleased that we have been able to ensure the financing of programmes, juventd Socrates and Culture 2000, which finalizaban at the end of last year.
 For example, our aid to the Mediterranean countries account with a delay affecting the budgets for many years.
 Mr President, in the debates in previous years spoke on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which Mrs Iivari has represented this evening.
 But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we must not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends only 1% of GDP, and a large part of the administration is in charge of the Member States.
 Let me turn to the global strategy.
 This brings me to the strategy of our group, because what is the desire of our fundamental view that the funds have a proper performance to the citizens.
 On the contrary, we must pursue a Parliament to campaign in favour of transparency, efficiency and effective democratic control of the European institutions.
 When that happens we must consider how we can resolve this problem.
 We want to promote the processes of democratisation, we want to maintain a balanced relationship between the traditional areas of foreign policy that we must address.
 The major problems in the preliminary draft budget are connected with external actions.
 Of course, we need a rigorous financial management; we support it and we should not try to shrink from that.
 An initiative is extremely exceptional, especially at first reading, and is a thankless initiative, because we cannot, in the current context, obtain a majority of votes.
 Having said that, the importance of funding for Kosovo does raise some problems.
 Budgetary policy is to ensure that the citizen confidence in European policy.
 All the measures aimed at strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, also deserve our support.
 The level of budgetary implementation;
 Preserving this line in the strategic approach of the budgets for this year and next, the European Parliament has fully their place in the budgetary process.
 With the transfer of 175 million, we have calculated, approximately EUR 25 million more than we expected.
 As far as MEDA is concerned, the Council said that the commitments were not a problem, in view of the eight years of delays in payments.
 I think that Mr Duff mentioned this morning was present when the European Council in Biarritz.
 My reply will be very simple.
 Ramiro Zapata was the last 25 of the defenders of human rights and murdered, recently, the press has denounced the 'Plan Colombia' 100 of the paramilitary groups to assassinate a hundred defenders of human rights.
 Today, I am a little more satisfied with that in July the Council's attitude, because, as many times in crisis situations, the European Union always seems to be the final authority in coming onto the international stage and make its voice heard.
 The question, Mr President, and I will end here, is whether or not there is a greater pressure that the formula proposed by the President in its information and if the aid we give will be completely different from that of the United States, that is to say, not aiming at spraying of crops, but the replacement of crops and also to the social aspects and not to the military.
 The questions that I and other Members of Parliament have raised relate specifically to the situation in Colombia.
 As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
 Subject: tax on financial transactions the demand in favour of a taxation of speculative capital has been gaining ground in recent months, with the proliferation of the committees (Attac association pour taxation South unites them transactions financières et aux citoyens aide pour l ') in France and in Europe, and the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and in the Senate in the same country.
 Also, I would like you to answer the question of its influence on the volatility of the currency markets and, especially, the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand profiteers who expect on the devaluation of the order of 20 to 50%.
 On the other hand, called for in paragraph 6, the establishment of an international organisation of arbitration to condone the debt of the countries of the South.
 Incidentally, this is what happened in the case of the euro on the scale of a year, either for or want to be deplored.
 I would add, Danielle Auroi what you said a moment ago in connection with the countries of the South, which some estimates, formulated by specialists, give interesting figures: for example, which is a range of 50 to 250 000 million dollars, which could be recovered from a Tobin tax rate the UNDP, for its part, an amount of EUR 40 million per year, which could give a sufficient minimum conditions of life for hundreds of millions of people who are in all the countries of the third world.
 The disease has been detected during recent months, for example, in different parts of France.
 Here as a representative of the French Presidency, abonarán wonder: will these massacres of beef from the funds from the EU budget to pay you or the national budgets, and considers that you would be indicated that they were able to afford it from the EU budget?
 I can hear the indulgence for that answer, please.
 Therefore, the action of the two governments concerned is limited by this international law.
 I believe that the Commission is already a mystery can say in February and the Council in July, what is needed.
 By acting in this way, in the name of subsidiarity, in reality, the European abdica one of its tasks as has happened in recent weeks in both the northern Italy as in Spain.
 As a Member of the European Parliament interested in this majority, how can endorse the expenditure of 11.500 million of taxpayers in the United Kingdom - in other words, our current contribution anual-, when it does not have a broad public approval?
 With a flexible position on the part of the Council, could reach an agreement at second reading to close the budget.
 If someone is not yet convinced, simply to examine the evidence.
 Mr Joan Colom I Naval, the Vice-President responsible for buildings, has already introduced this strategy.
 The messages in the budget for this year are - as the Commissioner has said. Schreyer- many the restructuring of agricultural policy, the new structural programmes, to ensure better implementation of structural policy, the monitoring of the decisions taken at the Lisbon Summit relating to the creation of an EU stronger and more competitive and to the fight against social exclusion.
 NATO's war has done much devastation and has caused much misery.
 Despite what was agreed, I sometimes wonder whether it is possible to achieve this objective with the current budgetary constraints, without undermining the agricultural budget to a sustainable rural sector in the current Member States.
 And I say so clear and unequivocal: You drone must be given a chance, and I hope that in the next few weeks or months to put in place an amnesty, but, in the meantime, I do want to put conditions at the political and budgetary policies to the implementation of these two new budgetary lines, that is to say, democratisation and reconstruction.
 The Yugoslav elections have demonstrated two things: finally people has hastiado of the dictator Milosevic and at the same time trusts Professor Kostunica.
 Furthermore, I am sure that the Albanian political prisoners will soon be in freedom.
 I do not, caímos inevitably in financial engineering "," in the rail and reductions in expenditure or general either in the environmental and social costs or in cooperation, but the fact is that, despite this, the appropriations for the Balkans will remain inadequate.
 In this context, efforts are required to solve the major social problems such as unemployment, for example.
 There is an issue which, of course, is of great importance: we are addressing category four, but it still has not been entirely clear whether we have been able to give a solution, because the Council refuses to bring in clear ideas.
 In all budgetary work are important priorities.
 This is not very serious in the horizon next to the expiry of the Treaty, but it would be worrying if the legal framework postceca retain the possibility of extending such practices.
 And so I will move on to my third point, the challenge before us now.
 The new financial agreement does not say anything about it, I have noticed that the citizens increasingly distrust of politicians.
 I pay tribute to them for that.
 The availability of all the institutions involved in the dialogue has given rise to an exemplary cooperation that will enable us, I hope, to reach a consensus at first reading.
 Those who represent the values in a country sceptical of the EU are now a new argument in favour of the European Union, that is, a better protection of personal integrity, something that is important for citizens in modern society.
 In my own country reformará law of personal data, despojando parliamentarians of power on the decisions of the Commission.
 Many other points raised problems and also deserve the trial of practice to be insured.
 The Commission would like to point out firstly that the compromise we have all taken with the citizens to ensure the protection of personal data being processed by the institutions.
 With this statement, the Commission accepts that the scope of the regulation to be limited solely to the activities of the first pillar.
 With a view to honour the political agreement that has been concluded with the Council and the rapporteur to allow an adoption at first reading, the Commission rejects any other amendment which does not belong to the Paciotti report adopted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, except for Amendment No 69 which corrects the Amendment No 41.
 It is, therefore, crucial that the inter-service group staff being strengthened quickly at the heart of the Secretary-General of the Commission, with the aim of the proposed that all acts of a general scope can be accompanied, during its examination by the College, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 299, for a detailed impact statement.
 From the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the internal market, which I want to stress is that, in fact, only be treated like that are equal.
 Given the importance of the fisheries sector for the outermost regions, I can only be sorrow about this.
 Until today, since the Presidency under Delors the setting-up of an inter-service group for the outermost regions, we have come a long way and fruitful and who has presided over this Group I must express the deep appreciation of Europeans not ultra-peripheral.
 Indeed even before the Treaty of Rome, reference was made to the French overseas departments, it was necessary to wait until 1989 and the programmes of specific actions linked to remoteness and insularity, the famous POSEI programmes, so that the European Union finally admit that the permanence and combination of the structural problems of the outermost regions justified a specific treatment with regard to other areas of the Community.
 I have no doubt that the proposals which the Commission presents to the Council will bear the stamp of these qualities.
 This question is becoming more and more important as we move towards enlargement of the EU eastwards.
 And the right to note that this difference is nothing more than a product of the principle of equality, which also needs to be treated differently what is different.
 It is a document that I consider my team and rich in ideas and that does not shirk any of the issues that concern the outermost Community.
 Your report, Mrs Sudre, rightly stresses the need to act in time a moment ago.
 With regard to the relaunch of the diversification of the economy, we have made progress in several key areas.
 It is important now that we are present in the framework of the DOCUPs a large number of projects, but, in parallel with this action on the ground, we have to think hard about the specific needs, access, each of these outermost regions to the information society.
 Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
 Of course I will inform the President of your speech.
 I am concerned about the possibility that there will be a general failure of many voting machines, which would jeopardise the decisions it makes the House.
 Both the food safety authority as the legislative proposals that we propose, aimed at guaranteeing food safety, can count on the support of this Parliament, Mr Commissioner.
 Its main task is to provide scientific advice, since the debate on food safety has also to be worthy of credit.
 Mr President, in conclusion I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive contribution and their willingness to take into account the opinion of the other committees.
 When we are confronted with a possible risk is important to apply the precautionary principle.
 Still on the controversial issue of how far should we go in regard to enable it to examine the nutrition, and even to submit recommendations and be consulted by those whose main task is the risk management, we have also said that in the field of security, the issues should at least be subject to public opinion and the advice of this food safety authority.
 A central idea is to ensure their survival of the rich heritage of traditions.
 There are laws or regulations which form the basis for this respectability, but the integrity, high-quality academic, independence, the sense of responsibility, transparency and comprehensibility.
 Certainly, it is essential to proceed on the basis of a good scientific knowledge, to evaluate the risks associated with the food chain, from farm to table.
 Mr President, it is clear that there is a considerable enthusiasm for the creation of a European agency for food safety, as our rapporteur prefers denominarla.
 Given that the programme of the who continue with the Structural Funds and the support necessary, they say that there is no need whatsoever of another agency, with a particularly so limited in scope as are the 15 Member States of the European Union.
 Food safety is an essential precondition for the consumer as consumers want to eat healthily and that we need to address us.
 If we do not get a new framework directive many aspects relating to food safety will only be worthless.
 Consequently, we need to change the Treaty in such a way as to give the Commission the power to impose sanctions in the field of food, in the same way that currently being done in the field of competition.
 I support all those operators who support the strategy for all food "and" working in the political sphere, administrative or any other.
 I do not share these words, because we know that man is not only body.
 This should represent the real heart of coordination of the network of national agencies, which in turn, must coordinate and put in place a network of centres of excellence food safety at regional level.
 I believe, therefore, that my Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 17 are perfectly compatible.
 The reform of the food laws of the European Union will take place at the level of the European Union.
 His report is not contains many proposals for amendment, but is limited to emphasise certain issues.
 It is very clearly stated in the report, and I welcome that.
 However, the creation of a European food authority is very positive.
 It is to be hoped that all these criteria are met for the good of the citizens of the Union as a whole.
 I believe it is essential to establish certain temporary margins in those who will be informed the European Commission in cases of justified concern.
 The EU must have the highest possible food safety for its citizens.
 The Commission now proposes the creation of a European food authority.
 I fear that Europe again runs the risk of a hinchado allowed apparatus of officials who is incapable of acting.
 To that extent we create new levels of bureaucracy and spend more money, it is becoming less what we get in return.
 To prevent similar work or parallel in several institutions.
 However, we must avoid a situation where, within the context of the debate on the Green Paper, increases in public opinion the fear of a bureaucratic Europe, which has an impact on the quality of the products without punishing effectively the fraud that threaten the health of consumers.
 As you know, the Commission attaches the utmost priority to its strategy on food safety.
 The Commission intends to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the principles and objectives of the global food legislation, which will provide the framework for future measures of health protection in the area of food.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner.
 Turning now to our report, I welcome the Commission proposal and I have to say that the Committees on Foreign Affairs and on development have worked hard to improve it further, if possible, particularly in some points.
 As has been said very explicitly clear and Mrs Bonino, with the proposal for a regulation from the Commission has given a new step forward.
 The Commission's proposal for a regulation is too vague.
 It is necessary that the budget for the removal of mines were organised in a reasonable way and that no question of promoting projects for research work for work of detection and disposal, for instruments that can be used in a way to provide a simple on-site aid precisely in developing countries.
 Over the last eight years, have contributed more than EUR 200 million from the Community budget, to the fight against landmines.
 But we cannot penalise those who have a bad governance.
 Firstly, as I have already mentioned, I think that it would be a mistake, well intentioned, but counterproductive, impose the accession to the Ottawa Convention as a prerequisite for Community assistance to the action antiminas.
 I cannot accept Amendment No 19.
 Secondly, the international community must improve coordination of their efforts at a global level, and in particular, as well as within the countries concerned.
 Mr President, the Socialist Group shares the pride that Mr Van Orden has just expressed with regard to the role played by the European Union.
 I think the Soviet bombs plaything in Afghanistan.
 Thank you for a good report.
 Mr President, the Cambodians call mines eternal sentinels.
 With regard to the uniformados people have a justified mistrust that has built up over many years of war.
 Mr President, I am glad that it has finally European legislation, in the form of a regulation on anti-personnel mines and today that we have a good report from Mrs Bonino on it.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very sad.
 It is not by chance that mines are, primarily, in areas in crisis, that is to say, in areas that could have been taken another type of initiatives in order to overcome this crisis.
 Two kilometres of a village in Bosnia, in 1999, in a field a warning signal the existence of mines, which does not prevent the presence of a child in this place.
 It is tragic that the civilian population is who suffer because of the unwisdom of their leaders.
 Ladies and gentlemen, let me welcome them in the name of our institution, with which your country has a privileged relations within the framework of our common project of building an area of peace, security and prosperity around the Mediterranean basin.
 All mines are stored.
 Mr President, as I agree with almost everything that has been said by my colleagues, I am not going to repeat I waive my speaking time.
 You have the concept of open cooperation is falling into the institutional dominated by officials of the Commission.
 We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the people who will.
 But as essential amendments from the EPP Group have to obtain a considerable majority, voted in favour of the report.
 Mr President, I abstained in the vote on the resolution on the results of the European Council in Biarritz informal rates for two reasons: firstly, because I had the opportunity to vote, should be taken by roll call, separately, paragraphs 2 and 5, which has given me the opportunity to express my opposition to both front.
 In other words, around the table of the common European home, some comerían à la carte menu and others the minimum.
 The lack of democratic control and must not, however, we have not wanted to the list of these rights and its inclusion in the Treaties, was the problem priority of the European Union.
 There has been talk of referendums and the amendments tabled to this report relating to these referendums.
 In the elections to the European Parliament in 1999, was only 40% of the electorate, without regard to the countries in which there is the mandatory vote or those that were made in the national elections simultaneously.
 In order to achieve the desirable objective of a European Constitution, it is unwise to impose rigid models and methodologies fatally, which would make it impossible to achieve the desired objective.
 A genuine constitution should levelling social upstream of the best of the achievements of the world of work, women, immigrants and the citizens.
 Even without denying a laudable intention of clarification, strengthening and deepening of the European Union, as well as simplifying texts necessary for the proximity of its operation in relation to the citizens, I voted in favour.
 The distribution of competences and responsibilities.
 I think it is essential that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU is the signing of the Convention on Human Rights by the European Council.
 I support Mr Gil-Robles, as it proposes that for certain issues, sectors and areas some Member States of the European Union agree a joint action.
 Allow decisions on increasing number of important issues to be adopted by qualified majority runs counter to the fundamental democratic rules.
 Today is to prevent the relaxation of closer cooperation, and will ultimately lose the starting point, also in this case.
 This report aims to establish the position in this sense of our Parliament (resolution of 13 April 2000).
 - (SV) In general, our attitude towards the so-called flexible integration is favourable.
 - The British Labour Members of the PSE Group, we welcome the adoption of their contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on enhanced cooperation, although not supports all the details.
 These islands must take an active part in the hope that the European Union becomes a paradise for tourists and a paradise for its inhabitants.
 In the Middle Ages, these regions and their inhabitants do not belong to Europe or even now be regarded as genuinely European.
 In fact, the specificity of these regions in general, due to the islands and alienation of the European continent, but also its chronic dependence on a single production or a few, require specific measures appropriate to overcome those limitations.
 Mr President, I apologise for the Presidency to entertain the interpreters and listening to my last explanation of vote and, in particular, I should like to express my solidarity with the translators our explanations of vote, as far as I am concerned Mrs.
 We can make it clear that the aim of the Agency is to channel the powers of national defence, or, to put it paralizarlos serves the objectives of the Commission.
 That does not mean that the Commission and Parliament denominen this agency 'authority' designation, which runs totally counter to the philosophy which is supposed to be based.
 This is not what we proposed in the Bowis report, which gives the impression that food safety is regarded as a fundamentally new pretext for feeding the well-known process of strengthening the powers of the Commission, to the detriment of national bodies and the bodies that protect the safety of citizens.
 For this reason, I believe that this statement I will condemn these unspeakable acts on behalf of the European Parliament that has always advocated the respect for religious freedom and tolerance between all their communities.
 Madam President, I understand the objections raised by the rapporteur, but on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is not just vote on issues of money, but also that we are to vote on a certain orientation of the issue.
 I should like to ask your support for us to make the necessary adjustments in the budget a-206, relating to the purchase of buildings, depending on what amendments have been adopted, with the aim that not traspasemos our own ceiling of 20% of total administrative expenditure.
 Before the vote on the proposal to amend 929
 Section VI - Economic and Social Committee
 Report (A5-0276 / 2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation sets out additional technical measures to rebuild stocks of cod in the Irish Sea (ICES Division VII) (COM (2000) 0190 - C5-0219 / 2000 - 2000 / 0071 (CNS))
 (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 Export subsidies are to be inunde the world market with the food surpluses of the Union, which entails serious disadvantages for the food industry in many developing countries.
 In order to achieve resources to increase aid to the Balkans, the Member States must make changes in the current budget.
 However, Parliament has succeeded in introducing important priorities, such as greater concern for the fight against unemployment and poverty, many environmental issues and equal opportunities, etc., we voted against the rightists attacks against the LIFE programme and the European Women's Lobby.
 - (SV) in relation to the reimbursement of relocation of members of the European Parliament, we maintain our view that compensation should only cover the real costs that have been incurred for journeys undertaken in the performance of duties.
 I assume that - and I hope that the Commission will bring solutions in a spirit constructivo- cubriremos the years 2002 to 2005 with a transitional provision.
 - (DE) with the aim of putting a gridlock, above all, to rule throughout the European parliaments, the European Commission, in its regulatory havoc and liberalisation, has submitted a proposal for a regulation directly applicable, instead of a directive that has to suffer a sad íter procedural through Parliament and the Council of Ministers to enter into force as of 31 December 2000.
 In this way we support the reform efforts of the Commission and we are opposed to continue to favour this sector.
 This has made depend very much on loans.
 Nicholson report (a-0276 / 2000)
 It is important to ensure that the aid will not be used for military purposes.
 Our view is always that the reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases must be achieved mainly with a real costs borne by the pollutants (that is to say, the large industries), to the detriment of its benefits.
 Moreira da Silva report (A5-0271 / 2000)
 We should spend this money concordando and coordinating the expenditure for research policy in all fifteen Member States of the European Union.
 It is good that we know, for the truth, caution with regard to these substances.
 The period of time has elapsed.
 This will replace the national format which is now being used everywhere.
 The loss of data for the statistics relating to the balance of payments is minimal.
 As imaginarán, the main affected are small and medium-sized enterprises.
 For years we have been demanding a harmonisation of the efforts because, after all, is it possible to establish a system for rapidly, safe and cheap.
 In my opinion, this report is of the utmost importance to integrate effectively to the citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro zone and increase the acceptance of the Economic and Monetary Union.
 There must be no obstacles or major differences when there is a free movement of capital with a single currency.
 However, the European Parliament and the Commission will attach great importance.
 I support the two political groups with which the rapporteur wants to induce the banks perezosos to act.
 Radwan and Mrs Peijs, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, which calls for the adoption of measures before the end of next year and, preferably, the establishment of these standards before they come into circulation of euro notes and coins.
 The proposal that we tabled by my colleague Mrs Peijs and I moves in the direction that the banks to sit at a table not to make concessions, because we cannot increase the more political pressure.
 After all, if the system for the realisation of cross-border payments remains as expensive as it is today, the credibility of the new system of coins and notes will be called into question.
 We believe that this form of the collection of statistical data on the system of payments within the Union is a vestige of the past; that in a single integrated area and can no longer be justified, and which constitute an obstacle to the smooth operation of the market.
 Having heard the speeches of some of my colleagues in the committees, some of which have been here longer than I had the impression that the exercise of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, which this Parliament has submitted for the fourth time, falls into this category.
 Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance that the support provided to my report.
 If we reject this political action at European level, must then be given more opportunities to the regions.
 SMEs are the main source of employment, both in terms of quality and quantity. Play an essential role in social cohesion and regional planning.
 The careful study and the proposals made by the concertation which has been pursued with many stakeholders have a triumph for better define and to optimise the establishment of this programme.
 Thirdly, we must look for European added value.
 It follows that small and medium-sized enterprises can only function well if the rate of unemployment is reduced and the public authorities at all levels are not in debt and have sufficient resources to send to the budgets for investment.
 Businesses need clarity.
 In particular, if an employer individual or a company with 250 employees account with a project, cannot be the only means of financing the Constitution guarantees of 120%, but it must also be possible to obtain funding for which only have a good idea.
 The national States, and even the regional or local authorities are already acting as real bombs perspective, which drenan taxpayers ’ money, i.e. sums are held up the majority of the population, including the poorest, and what bombean towards the big companies and thus towards their owners and shareholders.
 The breeding ground for small and medium-sized enterprises includes thousands of fragile attempts to nurture of human potential and ideas to large companies.
 The measures we have proposed here, which I would like to address the Commissioner is to facilitate and speed up the aid and access to the information, so that the people who manages these companies can use them effectively.
 They all take pride of place in the multiannual programme.
 Finally, I welcome the idea of a quotation concertarnos to carry out an annual assessment of the implementation of the programme.
 The recent incidents at the expense of the Greek minority in himarë made more urgent need to promote the democratisation process, the strengthening of institutions and respect for human rights in Albania.
 A considerable number of Albanians abandoning its land by the uncertainty that prevails in your country, for the social problems, for their social structures and family premodernas.
 We need to have preventive measures specifically designed to Albania that contribute to the construction or reconstruction of the country, with the aim of making it possible a dignified life in the region.
 As well as a body is going to the other documents and the European Commission, for example, is refusing to publish the report on, among other things, the customs assistance. Cam mission (), drawn up by the Albanians.
 We see the truth as it is.
 Mrs Karamanou, congratulations on the wider point of view and extensive evidence that his report.
 It is a matter of the greatest importance, created under the influence of factors historical, social, political and economic.
 We will never know the real number of deaths.
 The common business people to engage in a peaceful manner.
 What, on the contrary, I think it is unacceptable in this report, and I tell you this frankly, it being confused with the effect the cause, namely that the procedure being confused weighted issuing visas and, consequently, the possibility to emigrate, with the cause of illegal immigration.
 The major institutional reforms under the Treaty of Amsterdam have influenced the management of the issues of political asylum and immigration.
 Thirdly and finally, the action plan and its implementation must be assessed by means of areas.
 But, of course, this also requires us to call us not go overboard in the volume of adoption of Community rules.
 Precisely now stressed the strength of Community action.
 I also advocate that the changes to the proposals on codification of European legislation in force are carried out by the inclusion of amendments in the directive or regulations in force.
 Understanding with ownership, the principle of subsidiarity is in two directions: the decision-making at the lowest possible level, and the recognition that the lowest possible level can be, in fact, a very high level, when there is general goods at stake will be lost unless it is protected in the same way everywhere.
 The report is a model of draft clear and concise and I hope that colleagues will take with the seriousness it deserves.
 The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the internal market not rests with the enthusiasm of its Members.
 To that I referred to in the report on the SLIM project, because the Community legislation, and Mr Medina we test with just one reading of the articles of the Treaty, it is difficult to understand, even for the experts.
 Therefore, to see some aspects of the report I produce little enthusiasm, because I would have liked a more comunitarizante "'report with regard to the internal market and, above all, on this point, of course, are not the winds blowing through the report.
 What is important for the EU institutions is that we have a strong commitment to raise the quality of legislation, particularly with regard to subsidiarity.
 The debate is closed.
 The maintenance of this situation could have a negative impact on the acceptance and in the opinion of the citizens about the euro.
 Mr President, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs a thorough preparation of the Karamanou report.
 However, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to take advantage of our oral question and this debate to express both sides, both addressed our motion for a resolution - and I do so with great calm, some considerations.
 The peoples of the Union that we represent so demand.
 But yes, it has taken a lot of water under the bridge, the agreement has passed and has not been replaced.
 I understand the reasons for the Commissioner, but I cannot understand the Director-General.
 We could say that eleven months after the mooring, we are still paying the previous agreement and the last of the previous one.
 Mr President, a year ago we had a similar debate and the fact that he had to spend a year for which begins negotiations highlights the difficulty of finding huge grounds for the fleets of the EU.
 The second agreement, things were very clear.
 But we must also understand that nothing is eternal, but even the stocks!
 Therefore, I particularly want to make it clear that, if something has been highlighted in the PPE-DE Group is not only to support, and to defend and promote the fisheries agreements, but rather to promote firmly to its size.
 Thirdly, since the fisheries agreement was discontinued, has continued the exploitation of waters of Western Sahara and not by Community fleets that are not subject to the control of the Commission nor the Member States: it speaks of a particularly important fleet in the Netherlands.
 I understand that, because these fishing activities represented a source of income and work for a poor region in relation to the rest of Europe.
 Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that at the end of the month concludes the temporary aid paid to the fishermen and shipowners staging posts in order to compensate for this year is an untenable situation, given that all the work to prefer aid.
 This year has been a parliamentary Andalucista negotiating and proposing initiatives by the corridors, by the offices, in the Committee on Fisheries and in the hearings with the Commissioner to take account of the especialísima character of the andaluza fleet which fishes in Morocco.
 Spain has developed in a remarkable way the most difficult neighbourhood relationship that has been recurrentemente in history between Europe and North Africa, between Spain and Morocco.
 As a Member of the Spanish Andalusian and hold up to you, the right of thousands of families Andalusian and Spanish to maintain and defend, and from this Parliament, defend their jobs, which are in danger for almost a year.
 We now proceed to the vote.
 A history of almost twelve years since the full of consuelos cancillería, delaying tactics, hopes, of necessity, of staff also placebos for those affected, tenacious defence of old rights vis-à-vis the citizens of Europe that it wanted something else that their rights.
 As you know, the matter is very complex and affects a setecientas people working in over twenty-five Italian universities.
 If reform and change the legal Italian, as has happened to the personal university, we do not believe that the Commission can intervene from the moment that all European citizens enjoy equal access to all categories A1.
 The injustice lies in two people who do the same work, work hand in hand, do, however, with different salaries and under different conditions.
 Worst of all, in my view, is to have to inform you that a favourable judgment can that does not constitute more than a few words pleasing, and will not lead to any real change in their lives.
 I should like to remind the Commission that I hope to respond to what the Court of Justice ruling, in the case allué, expressed as follows: "for the present dictates that is contrary to Article 48 (2) of the Treaty of the EEC law of a Member State in any case to limit the duration of the contracts of employment of the assistants of foreign languages to one year, with the possibility of renewal, if not in principle applies that limit other teachers'.
 Well, I believe that these are matters that lead to the heart of the fundamental principles of freedom associated with European law, in particular freedom of movement, and we cannot make exceptions to these principles.
 We still have jobs, as has been seen in this discussion, too many restrictions, too many obstacles to the internal market, and not only in this case.
 The debate is closed.
 (The President cut the speaker off)
 I propose a minute of respect.
 Are there any comments?
 I support the proposal put forward by Mr Ceyhun, and I would be very grateful if the Council could tell us if there is real intentions to present a new proposal on this matter.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that this important event which believe that it would be an appropriate treatment in the form of a matter of urgency.
 Galeote just said, but I have the impression that you adheres to these reasons, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understood correctly.
 Madam President, some time ago we discussed in this House the issue of sanctions on Iraq.
 It is urgent that we hold a debate before the introduction of the amendment proposed by the British authorities, and that the Commission sets out quite clearly what the rules that must be observed in this respect.
 (A5-0314 / 2000) by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to the adoption of a convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, especially in the area of the fight against organised crime, the laundering of the products of infringements and crime in financial terms (10213 / 2000 - C5-0394 / 2000 - 2000 / 0815 (CNS)).
 Statements must be followed by concrete measures to proceed to the tracing, freezing, seizing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime.
 The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot remain in the hands of a single agency specialised, subject to the control of the national governments.
 Moreover, Article 8 of the draft Convention restricted to essential interests the grounds for refusal of assistance which could invoke the requested state.
 I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Marinho for the work that he has done and I would like to say that, indeed, attempts to combat organised crime must be given support and attention.
 Locating, pursue, condemn the laundering of dirty money of terrorists and the trafficking of arms and drugs, and of course it does!
 Our task is to proceed to the tracing, freezing, seizing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime.
 All these considerations are contained in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I have every confidence that Parliament will approve these amendments.
 In my view, the establishment of these initiatives is progressing in a way which can ignore the protection provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
 In reality, however, this is not so simple.
 Finally, Mr President, the PPE Group supports the compromise amendment which we have reached with Mrs Roure on the activities of lawyers.
 The second measure, the second instrument, is harmonisation.
 It is a Portuguese initiative that has already been praised by previous speakers.
 And that was the subject of the joint meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council and the Ecofin Council on 17 October last.
 The best way to strengthen the parliamentary control and judicial control of Europol is the full integration of the Europol Convention within the legal framework of the European Union.
 A step in the right direction, which the European Parliament is trying to give a long time is the creation of a Provisional Judicial Cooperation Unit.
 This is the sense of guarantees, that is to say, to promote this aspect of freedoms.
 The European Parliament is the Community supranational body able to establish this relationship, and with this intervention I propose therefore that support this right to support our rapporteur.
 Only when the institutional model and the rules that will govern the European area of justice is resolved, it will be possible for the citizens and Parliament to comment on each one of the measures proposed by the Council.
 For this reason, Europol is a logical step in the process to give the citizens a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice, by strengthening the fight against organised crime.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt deserves to be congratulated on the excellent report presented, in line with the decisions taken at the Tampere Council.
 But given that Eurojust raises the coordination of the national public prosecutors and judges to fight against all forms of serious crime - and here I agree with the approach of the rapporteur - the broad concept: no longer speaks only of cooperation for the crimes purely transnational cooperation, also refers to the suppression of criminal activities.
 We will have the opportunity, from 1 January 2001, go in that interim unit, but the Commission wants to hold a debate on what should be the definitive Eurojust unit.
 Each side sincerely held its position, so I believe, without indulging in clashes rigid.
 Problems have arisen with expenditure not excessively care for the Committee on Fisheries, although provided more attention to other matters.
 It is totally unacceptable that we do not have clear objectives or we can measure the results, something that does not happen in any other institution.
 Second point: in the field of the hierarchy of power in the planning of payments has come here to intersections unacceptable, Commissioner.
 With that I would like to stress that played a positive role to a number of problems.
 It is obvious that this work in a consortium does not create any duality in the joint financial responsibility.
 We have therefore really acted to recover these 3.4 million, and we can say that we have succeeded in more than 90%.
 Are there any comments?
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after nine months of work and long wrangling in the search for a consensus, we now have on the table a draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
 I hope that, even if restricted today to give its assent to this letter, this House will make indubitablemente clear in the next few weeks that asks the Council the binding nature of the Charter and that this also includes the possibility recourse to the European Court of Justice.
 This position joins, as you know, adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Biarritz in which they themselves adopted unanimously and without reservations, the Charter and, therefore, I can only invite you, on behalf of the Council, to follow this position, but to some considerations.
 But, above all, it is on the strength of its content by the Charter, I am sure, will this time.
 For its part, the European Trade Union Confederation has been able to condemn what she thinks gaps, such as the lack of any reference to the right to a minimum wage, for example.
 However, various personalities, and especially the members of the European Parliament, have proposed that we should include an explicit reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, which already refers to the Convention on Human Rights.
 Our Group unanimously supports the Charter with the exception of the British delegation.
 The European People's Party calls in its entirety and unanimously by the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the Treaties as soon as possible, in order that also has the force of law directly to the inhabitants of the European Union.
 They have shown that it is possible to discuss the European Affairs of a new, exemplary and a much better than the Intergovernmental Conference, given its work with the greatest transparency and democratic, open and which enables the involvement of citizens.
 The right to health care, social security, housing, the minimum wage are non-existent or only the order of solidarity.
 Fourthly, the Charter - and this seems to me to be particularly important part of the principle of the indivisibility of human rights of citizenship and fundamental rights of political and social order.
 Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Charter is simply the umpteenth demonstration of the capacity of the Union and of our Member States to multiply the texts, vacuos declarations of intent.
 The representative of the Commission in the Convention Torino legal significance attaches to the document.
 After the hour of the market, when the Europe of human perhaps has finally reached the concept of citizenship in the European Union is a relatively new concept.
 The Charter is, in effect, as drafted a text that can have a binding.
 I also note with great pride that a representative of my group in my country, jansson Gunnar, had an important role to play in the formulation of this Charter.
 As I said last night - and I shall say - throughout the Union, there are many shortcomings in this respect and sometimes, with our impatience to develop judicial and police cooperation, overlook the importance of ensuring that the innocent victims, are not passive collateral damage of a war against crime.
 Madam President, the draft resolution of the European Parliament on the Charter of Fundamental Rights is based on the same terms that the work of the House.
 The Italian Constitution provides, for example, the limit of good conduct; the Convention provides for the limit of the rights of others, of public order.
 Mr President, in today's vote on 12 conclude a process that started in 1984 when this Parliament approved the draft Treaty on European Union, which was already the request for a statement of rights, a process that we continue in 1989 with the resolution de Gucht.
 The Charter will have the effects will have to be or not in the Treaty.
 We must welcome and not with fear seems to think, as Mr bondi.
 It seems that the century that ends, with all their struggles for the emancipation of disadvantaged social classes, has not been in vain and has taught us nothing.
 The Charter fills a gap in Community law and strengthens the protection of individuals with regard to the atrocities of the European police authorities, fighting fraud and the authorities that are responsible for competition.
 I do not understand the dissension who underlies because the Charter does not everything we would like to see included.
 Mr President, I will continue where it was Mr Gahrton.
 The third point I want to make concerns the rights of citizens of third countries.
 The Council of Europe has, along with the European Court of Human Rights, with a great deal of experience in such forms of control, we can take.
 In view of the text of the letter that I hope that we will be approving today by a who, by and large, are, it is clear that in our Charter we are going to achieve a more up-to-date and also more comprehensive protection of fundamental rights that would have meant the accession to the European Convention for the protection of human rights.
 That is why it is necessary to go further.
 I think it is important to bear this in mind if we want to achieve the necessary support from the citizens of Europe to the letter.
 After its adoption by this Parliament, the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be my guide for analysis of this report and as far as my personal resources and intellectuals and the media in regard to colleagues that I have available, I will make a right analysis by law, country by country of respect for the Charter in the fifteen countries of the Union.
 - (FR) Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission would, firstly, adhere to the aims of the President Moscovici, and to highlight the most important contribution that the members of the European Parliament have contributed to the debate, to the Convention, in particular the role that Mr Méndez de Vigo has played in the Praesidium of the Convention for the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
 I refer not only to some of the most salient points of this debate: firstly, too.
 The Convention has opted for fundamental rights include inspired by the various instruments of the Council of Europe, in the Treaties, in the constitutions of the Member States.
 The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
 In the current state of affairs, our Parliament also corresponds to the Turkish people say that at the moment there are three conditions for membership.
 As a result, the European Investment Bank is one of the last of the ports of refuge banking activities in the world is not salpican waves of social debate.
 That is why we have taken good note of the suggestions made by Mr Morillon on the preconditions for the accession of Turkey and deserve the greatest interest.
 I am pleased to say that the Turkish Government has accepted this partnership between both as a basis for our future cooperation, so that we can achieve justified hope that precisely the intended aim, which is to support our political forces in Turkey reformadoras, give new impetus to the reform process and make progress with a view to the desired accession to the European Union.
 What is most important to me is that from Helsinki has begun in Turkey, between the Turkish public, a debate on the conditions for the accession of Turkey to the EU, a debate which gives support to those forces in the country reformadoras and promote their development.
 This text is awaiting its opinion.
 What we want is to give an impetus on the scene of a future accession.
 However, I would urge you to Turkey - I do not know what the outcome of the vote - to take this issue seriously.
 The European Parliament will play its role in the promotion of relations with the political parties, NGOs and the press, as well as developing their sensitive and sometimes tirante relationship with the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
 Mr Morillon, your report is, in my view, absolutely realistic and responsible.
 During his visit to Turkey in March at least mentioned by name the problem of the Kurdish population, as it has done today.
 Considering that Europeans are to carry the Turks, and I quote, "a radical change of their customs and their mentality" reveals a great naivety and at the same time a great sufficiency.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today fills me with concern.
 Recommendation (A5-0325 / 2000) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the adoption of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (4487 / 1 / 00 - C5-0570 / 2000 - 2000 / 2233 (AVC))
 In any case, in the next few occasions on which we shall be debating the computer power, we must realise that there is a need for a more comprehensive control and, therefore, more garantizador of the person.
 Recommendation Duff / Voggenhuber report (A5-0325 / 2000)
 We furthermore:
 Human covered by the Charter are already part of the national constitutions and are defended by the national parliaments, close to the people and their cultures.
 For example, Article 19-1, which mentions that: "the collective expulsions are prohibited," does not specify that this ban can be suspended in the event of war or serious disruption of public order.
 We are going to give a brief explanation of these three objections in order.
 The right of a government to put aside their arbitrarily characteristic of a constitution is the defining question tyranny.
 But, I repeat today, we have every reason to be proud of the conditions under which we have completed this important stage for Europe.
 A society which not only aware of rights and duties, becomes a selfish society.
 Our priority is to combat the assertion that fundamental rights are implemented in political elections.
 Despite the fact that the Convention method is interesting and fecundo text, to establish a basis for a broad compromise, nothing justifies prive to the European Parliament, which embodies the representation of the European peoples, the possibility of amending, to enrich the text.
 This Charter must be improved, and our Parliament should propose a strategy to its updating and its enrichment.
 Therefore, the letter does not proclaim and should be decided at the Nice Council, but that this summit should be encouraged a European debate on it.
 Fortunately, the predominant trend of national governments seems to indicate the path of common sense, namely the acceptance of the Charter with a purely political scope and non-binding.
 Created as "House" for the Cologne Summit, autoproclamó 'convention', a name that is unfortunately to 1793 terrorists and the implications of the French Revolution materializadas Convention on the other.
 On the other hand, the method used, proclamadas exclusions and the ambiguity surrounding the very nature of this text quite cast a harsh light on the new efervescencias totalitarian operating at the heart of the process of European integration.
 Fortunately, the European Parliament has not yet in this field more than a consultative role, pending a full implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but is the way to do so in the wrong direction, slowing down the right decisions.
 On the other hand, there are discrepancies in terms of procedure.
 This was a century ago, and after that, retrocediera achieve something is now in force.
 The last thing we want is that the single market will enable criminals into the single market by the back door and without being seen.
 And we also support the future creation of a Convention which will facilitate the fight against organised crime and money laundering, as well as the various measures proposed in order to achieve these aims.
 In effect, this creates an interim unit, comprising a representative of judges or the police exercised activity of a judge in our fifteen Member States.
 Mr President, in my capacity as a Member of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee, have been intense attention to the draft accession of Turkey.
 Nor is it acceptable Turkey's role in Cyprus.
 However, we support the rapporteur's criticism with regard to a needs assessment on the granting of loans from the EIB and that there are shortcomings in the areas of transparency and democratic control of the Bank 's activities.
 Turkey, with all its differentiation, always has been and remains an inseparable part of the reality of Europe.
 The accession of Turkey to the European Union has become more than ever in an issue on the agenda.
 Mr Morillon saying that Turkey must be careful not to see the European Union as an exclusive club 'Christian' to exclude it.
 Turkey will be a fully democratic country when learn to live with its past, like the democratic Germany learned to live with yours and I have also asked for it.
 With regard to the authorities in Ankara have understood that the status quo is unacceptable for Europe and for the rest of the world, will be able to make significant progress: the island can be reunited and tomorrow will be a fair, lasting and comprehensive regulation in accordance with international law.
 In truth, why not included this in the report of the European Commission?
 This is the balanced framework in which we must resolutely continue with our action to encourage the rapprochement between the Union and Turkey.
 If we look at the Armenian issue in the context of the accession to the EU - please listen well what I say: if we tackle the Armenian issue in the context of the accession to the ue- the project that we are debating today will not reach its; it is as simple as that.
 Moreover, it is also the reason why our insistence that make an assessment of the first five years of implementation of the Barcelona process, so that in Marseilles, precisely because we are in a position to establish the necessary guidelines.
 However, we have managed to keep the dialogue, and sometimes on sensitive issues: stability, terrorism, migration, human rights, for example.
 In addition, the Council has made an effort, in particular since 1995, by providing the Mediterranean most important means, to the extent of the challenges of the partnership.
 This is, in fact, a matter of extraordinary importance, and I say this also in my capacity as centroeuropeo.
 Mr President, as you know, in English it says that when the star does not appear in a role, as a representative of the enterrador Hamlet without first.
 We want to see a mancomunación policies on issues relating to the single market and agree to introduce the cumulation of origin in conjunction with the regional free trade agreements that all the partners to maintain free trade relations between themselves and adopt the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
 We note with satisfaction that the Commission is prepared to give fresh impetus to the Barcelona process.
 I raised these issues because they must find the key to relaunch the process, and all of this we must add the extension of the political agenda of Barcelona.
 Therefore, our priority must be to secure the peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we must make every possible effort in the interests of this cooperation and to ensure that the funds committed to be implemented effectively, depending on the digamos- selfish generosity - of the European Union.
 These are important and specific questions that I would like to raise, and I would like to thank Mr Brok for authorised just before this debate that the Presidency and the Commission to discuss these issues.
 The world is moving towards a globalisation unstoppable and in this context must be organised in large blocks that act as protagonists in the great scenario of global competition.
 It is disappointing that the Mediterranean countries have asked only barely a quarter of the appropriations of EUR 4.7 billion for the MEDA I programme, which expired in 1999.
 This is positive for the proposal for a new impetus that the Commission has done and we fully agree with the two priorities which has marked out by Mr Patten in his speeches and reiterated here this evening.
 It is a wake-up call for the European Union to play a more active role in the Mediterranean area that historically and culturally enriqueció and engrandeció our European continent.
 However, there is still much more serious, at the same time in this Chamber calmly exchange views sometimes divergent, are still killing more Palestinians.
 Aid for reconstruction
 If, however, in December we provide the means for implementing this regulation, we held a debate today devoid of content.
 It is complicated procedures, but neither must we do not want to close our eyes, and I hope that the Member States do not either, given the role played in this.
 The media in that region have been responsible often tragedy which has lived and resources are needed and completely free to act in accordance with the rules that prevail in our democracies.
 Similarly, I am lucky because I believe that Parliament has had to return to the success in achieving a situation which was originally was not as good as it has had a continuous pressure.
 I repeat once more: it is absolutely essential to avoid unnecessary costs in meetings unnecessary.
 However, we must look not only in Kosovo.
 It is also unfortunate that a series of programmes have been put in the so-called 'performance reserve, opførselsreserven ".
 In Feira, recognised the quality of potential candidates for accession to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process.
 I reiterate the main priorities assigned to the CARDS programme: the strengthening of institutions in the sense of democracy and the rule of law, economic development and reconstruction; regional cooperation.
 The European Union was right to respond positively to the President of the kostuniça access to power.
 On 6 November took place first examination.
 What initiatives is the Presidency of the Council to adopt, as requested by the European Parliament in its resolution of 16 March 2000, to play a more active role in order to ensure the full and complete implementation of the UN peace plan?
 How to give new impetus to achieve this without the resolution of this conflict - were aware of the links that exist between the European Union and Morocco, and more particularly between France and Morocco.
 I can simply point out that France and Germany - here I am no longer as President of the Council mentioned these matters in the course of a bilateral Summit in vittel, last week, and it was decided to set up a working group in order to remedy the problem.
 At the same time, the European Union continues to make a material assistance to these two important countries, through the intermediary of its various programmes, especially TACIS.
 The honourable Member's question is, then, to the Presidency the opportunity to dispel certain confusion.
 Let me add a further point: it is particularly in these two texts, the strengthening of the penal framework to combat organized networks of smugglers.
 In the report that the Council of Ministers Turkish adopted on 21 September as the programme of reform, are on the part of the legislative changes: several projects included in the Civil Code measures to strengthen the attainment of equality of men and women in the areas socioeducativos better; the fight against violence, family; better condemn these acts of violence by the creation of specialised judges in the field of the family and, finally, to ban the possibility of a reduction of death by crime of honour.
 Therefore, the Presidency has no reason to give an answer on this point.
 The next week, there will be a meeting of the European Conference, to my invitation, in France, that is to say with the candidate countries will tell me that Mrs.
 Do you think that the model that has been followed in the case of Austria, that is, the bilateral majority decision-making in the future, could be used as an instrument for decisions on the fringe of the European institutions and to create a new institution or a new group, in order to avoid the unanimity rule in the Council?
 Cem. The terms of this response was communicated to the whole of the Member States.
 President-in-Office of the Council, Mr moscovici- which says that in order to make progress on the accession of Turkey to the European Union, it is not possible to take into account the issue of Cyprus?
 We must bear in mind that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than just a fisheries agreement and, as he knows, if not being reached this agreement, bearing in mind what that means, this could hide a deterioration in relations between the European Union and Morocco.
 Therefore, I must express my scepticism about the outcome.
 With regard to the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, it should be noted that this principle should enable the strengthening of cooperation with the Member States, but also the protection of the rights of individuals.
 The supplementary questions must be other Members.
 On the other hand, the Commission, in the communication adopted on 4 October 2000 d on the supply of oil, says that the European Union wants to submit, at the European Council in Gothenburg, a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources, which should help to strengthen the efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
 In this spirit, we, in connection with the vote on the resolution on the embargo, within the framework of the Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations, on 9 November, call on the Cuban authorities to cooperate fully with the international bodies who defend human rights.
 It is, therefore, to take the NATO provisions it considers necessary so that they can return to occur.
 (The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
 When money is unquestionably one offers the privilege to establish clearly the political objectives, and that is what has been done by the Commissioner.
 This presence can give a global policy perspective that we are.
 If we look at the region as a region of virtual powers cometeremos a political error.
 Parliament must be consulted and informed on a regular basis, and this is the second request that defines the rapporteurs and all of us will endorse.
 The Heads of Government have also confirmed the determination of the Union to support this process with technical and financial aid.
 It was Parliament that supported the Commission's proposal to create the European Agency for Reconstruction.
 As the House knows, we believe it necessary to make an explicit reference to this in the regulation. Despite the eloquence of Mr.
 The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
 The leaders agreed a framework 2000 updated and extended cooperation between Asia and Europe is that the programme of work for the decade emerging.
 In my opinion, these issues remind us of the important role that Europe represents in Asia, not only in economic and commercial terms, although it has to be said that one of the reasons for the recovery of Asia is that we have kept our word of maintaining open markets to our exports to Asia over the last two years.
 I believe that we have made an excellent political declaration, but there are still some problems to resolve.
 We know that the Commission takes very seriously the ASEM and fully support to this institution in that regard.
 It is necessary to improve the existing mechanisms in the transposition of Community law, to increase the legal certainty and overcome its current slow.
 Why should push ahead with the creation of new regional organisations, starting where there is already Community presence, as is the case with the Western Pacific and the South Pacific.
 This will make a real contribution to that fisheries are sustainable.
 I believe that the future of the fishing in international waters depends on these organisations and all the efforts of the Commission, Commissioner, are few to defend the position of the United Nations, both in the Convention and the New York 1982, which is referred to here, we have a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing.
 This is why we believe that the Commission has a very important role in order to encourage fishermen to be at the forefront, cooperate with it and to propose a solution with which we all agree.
 In addition, the Commission must take charge of all kinds of tasks in connection with the negotiations that have to be carried out in the context of the regional fishing organisations.
 Mr President, I have the same problem Nicholson in my case, but it is even more serious.
 Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions recommended by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
 Sometimes we have come to ask ourselves to what extent the crisis itself cyclical market is not caused by the action of the relevant speculative business structures that will guarantee the control of the sector on the basis of their interests.
 The extra aid Community raised in Mr Garot ’ s report is, in my view, contrary to all sanity in recent years, when the Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe we must reform of our agricultural policy.
 Our aim is to introduce a system of safe and it is clear that it is based on social criteria, in my opinion, the rapporteur has done an excellent job, which demonstrates that the administration is much stake when it has a purpose, clearly defined, as is the case.
 On the one hand, the most important producers, or those who are integrated with the companies producing, it would take no part in this device, preferring the systems that already have: savings, individual loans, compensation fund.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say at the outset that, in principle, welcome the Commission proposal to create a fund regulation, also in the framework of the Austrian agriculture.
 I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
 I understand that you want a market organisation for the exploitation of intensive farming and the collapse of the agricultural policy when it is linked to the land, where there is an extensive production.
 There is already an organization of markets and we should not make the mistake of questioning the existing organisation of markets, since in general terms surte the desired effect.
 In the view of the Commission is fully justified that only require greater rigour to farmers who participate in the Fund regulation, since after all they receive a stable income to change, both those who do not adhere not get any compensation.
 (The sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m.)
 The appeal from the value added tax represented the 36% and the traditional own resources amounted to 15% of the total.
 Another element of the reform which corresponds fully with one of the fundamental priorities identified by the Court is the need to attach greater importance to the measurement of the results and the action within a framework of allocation of resources which is consistent with the predetermined priorities and objectives that are clearly defined and can be measured.
 This is good and I thank you very much, Mr Karlsson, like the members of the Court of Auditors and its services, the support given to the reform of the Commission in its report.
 In this context, given its proximity, I would also like to remind you that, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, we have proposed an amendment to the Treaty to create a European Public Prosecutor's office responsible for prosecuting fraud to the detriment of the financial interests of the Community and I sincerely hope that the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice is not restricted to take note of the proposal or need to scrap, but that this will be discussed seriously.
 The reality, as laid down in the annual report, it is rather disappointing.
 The number of errors identified is too high in order to provide this guarantee.
 The amount earmarked for activities of planning has fallen well short of 240 million.
 Supuse also that the report of the Court of Auditors would be slightly more user-friendly and it would provide some clear recommendations, for example, one or two clear recommendations for chapter.
 In 1995, it adopted a convention on the protection of the economic interests of the European Union.
 The Commission and the Member States should see from this angle and use the results of the report as a tool to improve their performance in the management of the finances of the European Union.
 I know that this report and the role which Parliament is preparing to engage in the context of the discharge will help to increase the vigilance with regard to Community expenditure.
 And at this moment in time, Madam President, I would like to keep quiet and hope that someone from the Council came here.
 The Court, as in other years, has not been said exactly where the failures.
 Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union and on the report from the Court of Auditors makes it clear that there is to be an arduous task in the applicant countries.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently come to an agreement with the Court of Auditors for the information that we receive from the Court of Auditors in advance with absolutely confidential nature and we also support the fact that leave in silence.
 I would also like to address the Council and ask why it does not go as far as to Article 24 of the financial regulation.
 It may be that a bit of common sense of the European Union to contribute to the resolution of the problem and to put in place the George Bush of history that deserves - its cubo of rubbish!
 We must not look for scapegoats, nor in our institutions and in our Member States.
 Firstly, with regard to the procedure for the presentation of the annual report to the Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control, I am pleased to hear the reassurances Members in the sense that the situation this year is more successful than in previous years.
 But we will have an opportunity to discuss all of this.
 When it is important from the point of view of taxation, to mention everything that needs to be mentioned.
 Ladies and gentlemen, as should have noted, the final part of the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors has suffered the consequences of interference from a malhadado virus between your speech and this House.
 Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, which have to do with issues that relate mainly to the United Kingdom and I have to say that all the groups in the United Kingdom, are Socialists, Greens, popular or have defended with great vehemence and approved by the Environment Committee.
 Mr President, in March of this year, we adopted the directive on the funiculares intended for the transport of persons.
 We believe that there must be borne by the manufacturer of trade on the obligations laid down in the legislation relating to the safety of products.
 We have heard the justifications for them and also in favour of repeating the arguments of the sector that is already heard in committee.
 The seller should be enough to report the buyer on the nature of the products and on the meagre data available on them.
 Lastly, a question to the European Commission in relation to Article 4, in regard to the standards and the question of whether these rules must be made public.
 I am pleased with the exceptions that are to include establishments of institutions and charitable organisations, non-profit-making and articles are marketed as second-hand articles in mercadillos or by private individuals.
 Confidence in the safety of products and the assistance after-sales are a more added value for the European label in a particularly difficult time and decisive.
 When, in another context, we call on the Commission to present a proposal relating to the safety of services, it is incomprehensible that now seek to regulate jointly the aspects relating to services, instead of waiting for the Commission to present its proposal, because it is already possible to predict that delimitation problems will arise from the scope of the different rules and legal uncertainty will in time.
 I would like to say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal.
 Furthermore, we have now envisaged the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular the candidate countries: the simplification of procedures in order to introduce emergency measures at Community level, so that we can intervene promptly following the opinion of a regulatory committee.
 This new requirement does not imply any substantial additional responsibility in the case of this type of shops.
 Replacing the word "producer" by "borrower", as proposed in Amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, because there is no definition of providers in the directive.
 Although the Commission is in favour of the creation of a network, the sooner this point must be agreed between the Member States.
 This certificate can always used to provide evidence, but in itself cannot be regarded as a litmus test.
 Having explained in detail the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 36 to 34 and part of Amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21, and the first part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31, 35 and part of Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21, and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, because they constitute an improvement and clarification of the Commission's proposal.
 Of course, Mr Barón Crespo, for if they are Italian socialist cannot be part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
 I believe that there is no conflict between Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37.
 With regard to the order of voting, I leave to the decision of the President, and I would point out that, in any case, I am against the three amendments.
 The Mediterranean non-Community countries face, qué duda cabe, particularly serious problems relating to economic development. Acrecientan regional inequalities are endlessly.
 With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, in the name of a harmonised European policy in the field of immigration, in addition to the legal instruments to ensure their fair treatment, it would be necessary to create instruments of financial aid in favour of those young people who, having completed a cycle of higher studies or university in the countries of Europe, want to return to their countries of origin to start to exercise a profession.
 I should like to highlight one factor, which is frankly factor in this matter; the lack of equality in the field of employment.
 Although belatedly, the Commission presented the programme relating to the Community framework strategy for equality between men and women (2001-2005), which strays markedly previous and, in particular, of the fourth action programme which expires at the end of this year.
 On the one hand, they have been taken into account various proposals for improvements tabled by my group on the other, because it stresses the need to examine the situation of women in the national labour markets and the lack of access to social security systems on the basis of statistics drawn up on the basis of data and representative broken down according to gender.
 (EN) My party has serious reservations with regard to apply Community legislation on the sale of consumer products, as regards the refusal of applying the concept of mutual recognition of standards.
 Now understands and labour amendments offer the guarantee that these shops remain intact and will be exempt from the directive.
 Finally, Amendment No 15 leaves a free hand to the Commission with regard to the language regime of the Agency, which we consider very worrying.
 The simplification of the decision-making procedures, the creation of decentralised basis of operations (not only in Pristina, where it has acquired the meaning of its separation of Yugoslavia), the treatment of the administration of dual structure between the Council and the Commission, can be positive movements in the direction of tackling the great bureaucratic inadequacy of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
 We are therefore voting against both the Commission proposal and Parliament ’ s report.
 For all these reasons, it seems justified to adapt the existing Community legislation in this area.
 Furthermore, the fund offers the possibility that the administrations to grant aid in the form of more or less covert cofinancing by the Member States.
 (EL) Despite its serious shortcomings, the Morillon report is, without doubt, more advanced that the proposal of the Commission with regard to the European Union - ôurquía partnership.
 We voted against.
 Like the rapporteur, we must admit that Turkey has made progress in some areas and that there are positive signs.
 Since 1987 our House had begun the path of recognition, and the approval of this amendment demonstrates the coherence of Parliament in this debate.
 The Union must make further proposals and consider the enlargement to include Turkey as an essential geopolitical strategy.
 These ulterior motives are unworthy of Europe and unworthy of Turkey.
 For several years, as a Member of the delegation for relations with Canada, I noticed the functioning of one of these organisations, the opano Regional Fisheries Organisation (in the north-west Atlantic), involving the countries of this region, including Canada, as well as all those who use in this place of traditional fishing areas, including France, Spain and other European countries.
 It is contentará until their fleet, cañoneras by flying flags of "ring of stars", monitor the implementation of its fisheries policies.
 What is important is not, therefore, to satisfy the desire for hegemony of the Commission and weaken the position of Europe, which would be in contradiction with the proper application of the principle of subsidiarity.
 Finally, following difficult negotiations have reached an outcome which is worth defending.
 Thus, the objective of this proposal, which seeks to replace three directives on the incineration of waste is to improve the quality of the air, water, soil, the health of the people, by reducing emissions of pollutants linked to the activities of incineration and co-incineration and, above all, dioxins and furanes heavy metals.
 However, I also think it is important to stress as novelty now that it is no longer merely emissions into the atmosphere, but also of emissions into the water and land.
 The proposal has been improved during its preparation.
 The introduction of limits much more stringent NOx emissions for new plants, such as the co-incineration in cement kilns, is another step forward that will serve as an incentive for the reduction of emissions, despite the fact that the proposed rules do not reflect the best available techniques.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise to Mr Blokland - especially - for having reached a few minutes late.
 In conclusion, this directive is an important contribution to reducing the harmful effects on the environment and the risks that they represent to human health.
 The European Parliament is to be met, in the name of the fight against discrimination and exclusion and in respect of the responsibilities of each one, to give a strong impetus to the creation of a mechanism which will enable there is specifically the essential principle of solidarity.
 There are, however, major differences between the various countries of the Union, and there is a lack of comparable detailed statistics in order to be able to establish reliable way of what is in force in each country, and what is dónde- what works better, what are the weaknesses, etc., precisely for this reason, in my opinion, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and monetary policy, underlines the need, before legislating Community rules on the supplementary insurance schemes of disease, for the Commission to prepare a Green Paper and sistematice covering all these data now dispersed and all the information on this.
 Until now, this matter has been considered taboo to some extent.
 There is a danger that due to the presence of the serious risks with public health problems and the elderly can only a limited hiring private insurance, which is incompatible with the social developments.
 The second point of view illustrated by the rapporteur's initial intention and shared by many colleagues, is to promote the regulations and codes of conduct necessary to introduce, between insurers, forms of mutualización costs - guaranteeing to all the provision of a good quality care - and to avoid the risk of developing discriminatory practices, as well as a selection of the risks and customers.
 I think it is quite wrong that the money will be the determining factor to be first in line.
 The new proposal from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs: first we think that a list be drawn up in a Green Paper and then decide whether we need a directive or a recommendation.
 At the moment, in the Netherlands, a debate is under way about the introduction of structural changes in the system.
 This is the basis of which has to leave the Commission to produce an initiative and articulate test can become concrete guidelines for the health systems of the Member States.
 Therefore, it is unlikely that the answer is a single solution and absolute for all medical insurance.
 I therefore believe that we must support the content of the report by Mr Rocard, whom I congratulate, which calls on the Commission to provide a service, a Green Paper which will allow us to see the current state of insurance in the Member States and also define the future.
 Both are being developed on a model of three pillars: the State, the business and the private sector.
 As regards supplementary pensions, the European Union has already produced a series of rules, which has been made through the drafting of a Green Paper which shows a draft directive.
 Mr President, I would like to express my thanks and congratulations to Mr Rocard for his report, and to congratulate Mr.
 This study will form the basis for a communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament to propose initiatives or measures.
 In connection with the amendments of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I can say with satisfaction that all have been incorporated.
 We have supported the characteristic features of the programme, as are multidimensional phenomenon, the treatment of the measures on health, education, housing, consistency and complementarity with other policies related, as well as the participation of non-governmental organisations, and the people affected by social exclusion.
 This means that we must seize stages upwards cycle for the situation to restore a balance or surplus.
 In this regard simply remind you that the last Ecofin Council has requested of the Commission that, as from next year, is already included in the assessment of the stability programmes precisely this aspect of long-term finances relating to the ageing of the population.
 One of the positive features of the programme of the Netherlands is the particular attention that is - as I said earlier, the impact of the ageing of the population in public finances over the next few years.
 For this reason, the resulting in the budget for the year 2000, in the German case, lead to a situation of surplus and a half a point of GDP.
 If we add to this the evolution of the exchange rate of the euro against the dollar, we have had a clear negative impact in terms of inflation.
 They are also in the sense of compatibility between a public system of distribution systems with private capital and, of course, are compatible with support for the creation of investment funds can obtain specific tax advantages in the long term and can help to deal with the problem of ageing.
 The third principle that guides us, then, is the precautionary principle.
 It should be remembered that are currently under discussion, several regulatory proposals that will help to strengthen the effectiveness and the relevance of the Community mechanism, and therefore - I hope - the confidence of consumers.
 However, this relatively low incidence is no reason to be satisfied.
 Frankly, I was disappointed that the statement made yesterday by Prime Minister Jospin would not have any such recognition of the positive role played by the Community in recent years.
 There is a clear need to find explanations to the increase in the incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
 The Food and Veterinary Office of the Commission already gives absolute priority to the controls in the Member States in connection with the protection measures against BSE.
 As regards its security, let me repeat that there is already a wide range of controls in place to ensure that the meal do not represent a threat of transmission of BSE.
 Yes, though it may be difficult to believe, it took four years to adopt a measure that I consider essential to the protection of public health.
 Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to expressly demand that the Council made public, finally, its opinion on the regulation on BSE.
 In this situation, the only way to break the circle of transmission of BSE is total ban the use of animal meal in animal feed.
 In this regard, I would like to say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted.
 Policies need to change this state of affairs so that the real perpetrators of this crisis are penalised and for specific decisions to take a first step in order to put an end to this tragic crisis.
 We, therefore, that revisarlos.
 The labelling of beef which has been adopted, which is a minimum and labelling which entered into force just two and a half months, not properly to trace the origin of animals very late and have banned the specified risk material.
 The public must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test of what I mean.
 At that time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, did nothing or almost nothing, as their counterparts nor did nothing about the consequences of Chernobyl, nothing about the AIDS epidemic, nothing about the contaminated blood, provided for the same reason: not panic among the public.
 The French ban will cause a huge increase in demand, but this stocks of products are limited.
 Consumers have lost confidence, and this phenomenon is necessary to contain the BSE tests to generalise the cattle and sheep.
 In the sense of the proposal of the Commission is now much more important to ensure that the meal meet the highest safety criteria.
 Moreover, I fully agree for once and without setting a precedente- colleagues have said with regard to the ladies Mrs Ainardi, Mrs Auroi and Mrs Grossetête.
 Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Council and the Commission, have a financial basis enough to carry out a sound policy.
 We must tackle it too.
 Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I am glad to hear, within this Chamber, that, whatever the cost, it is necessary to change the CAP.
 We had denounced in its time, here, with Jimmy Goldsmith.
 Food must be a safe food for humans.
 I think that France has been exemplary very quick to take this step.
 But if these are not help!
 For this reason, I am surprised that in these circumstances we use to continue to be able to prosecute or bodies.
 A recently published in the UK the Phillips report on BSE.
 I would suggest that the European Commission is also to apply the principle of caution with regard to the beef from France.
 Today we already know, that we are still in the dark, what are the scientific data, what measures are to be taken.
 Moreover, I have heard all these proposals; I am not insensitive to them.
 If the representatives of the Member States come and tell me that the legislation has not been implemented in its entirety, perhaps we should rethink the issue, but we will not do so because the scientists tell us that this is necessary, but because there are gaps in compliance with the law in the European Union.
 The best way of not oírnos is not invited us in any case, Mr.
 The Commission considers that for the clarification and the coordination of these policies readmission agreements play an important role and are currently under negotiation the first Community readmission agreements with Russia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Morocco.
 What proposals does the Commission have in this area on the basis of Article 31 of the European Union?
 (The President cut the speaker off)
 During this period the objective was to reduce the deficit in order to achieve a more acomodante monetary policy, lower interest rates and more growth.
 I always say that the euro should not be introduced on 1 January 2002, the euro is already in our pocket; we have with fraccionarias different currencies, but we have already in the bag.
 The values laid down by the Directive 92 / 72 is not sobrepasaron in the city of Athens, although it should be noted that no measurements were announced in the middle of the summer.
 Subject: aid to the audiovisual sector in a seminar of the French Presidency on the industries related to culture, a representative of the Directorate-General for Competition on the European Commission stated that the legal obligations of investment imposed on the television channels are state aid by the fact that these investments are imposed with mandatory by the legislator.
 It must be respected and protected ’.
 However, this is not clear, because the new growth is very desigualitario and can be accompanied, as we have seen in the United States since some ten years ago, by persistent phenomena of insecurity, of exclusion, poverty, ghettización URBAN.
 The governments of the Member States are not accepted, it is also true that this definition is very simple and obvious too.
 In the atmosphere hostile to be created, there are many who are on the way and that are rejected.
 Mr President, this House is listening very often, like a mantra, the glorification of the European social model, the social market economy must match with pride - I think the savage model - many of the United States.
 (technical glitch)
 This is a huge amount.
 Furthermore, they must join all political levels.
 I agree on the need to better understand the causes of poverty, support the preventive action against exclusion as a result of industrial change, mergers, transfers of undertakings, hiperconcentración urban, rural desertification, with speeches innovative and practical which involve the participation of the social partners, local and national administrations and the joint action of the citizens.
 There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in the fight against social exclusion and the role of social and structural reforms.
 This is a problem of legal nature, since, under the terms of the Treaty, is the only reference to social exclusion and poverty.
 In my opinion, these proposals are a pragmatic answer to your question.
 But to agree in the strategy does not necessarily mean agree on the details.
 If we define a clear and binding framework for the Member States, the various systems that have to meet such requirements must be a trial period longer.
 Renewable energy sources are not going to be a panacea for solving this problem, but there is no doubt that, in large part, can contribute to paliarlo and also to diversify the sources of energy and to reduce our dependence on oil, which furthermore would not all bad.
 I shall repeat three of our demands.
 The establishment of realistic objectives will without doubt to increasing the confidence of the citizen in the energy policy to be applied.
 I believe that a vigorous policy in the field of renewable energy sources is a symbol for the Europe of tomorrow.
 Finally, these agreements should allow the European countries to fulfil its contribution to achieving the objectives set in Kyoto.
 It is regrettable that exclude any category that can contribute to the achievement of the general objective of recovering energy from waste - whether it is small-scale projects as if it is a part of the total- calculation.
 The shaping of the biomass of peat in its photosynthesis and production of vegetable waste is similar to that of the other biomasas fats.
 I would like to inform Mr Chichester that off the coast of my people are installed quickly windmills in the sea, a draft that is without doubt is going to come into operation in a very short time, so I would like to invite you to see it when there are already in place.
 The argument about the waiver of nuclear energy, for example in Sweden and Germany, has revealed that if there are on the horizon ecological energy alternatives that are practicable at a competitive price, the debate is doomed to failure.
 For this reason, the Member States must have binding targets.
 Therefore, I am optimistic about the future potential of renewable energies, provided that they provide the necessary incentives.
 I think that we need a great deal of courage to put continually to renewable energy sources in the place they deserve.
 An increase in the price of oil fortísima undoubtedly presents us with greater brutality to the problems associated with our energy dependence on fossil energy sources.
 We cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 28.
 However, in doing this, the Commission is well aware that the terms used not prejuzgan its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single market in electricity.
 In the Commission for the reconstruction of Tajikistan, where there are 25 000 widows, only one of the 26 delegates was women.
 Despite the fact that the proportion of women has been limited, studies have shown that the participation of women in the peace-keeping forces of the UN to improve relations with the local population and the general moral.
 The report falls Theorin in this field in very specific details and makes said that as the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats urge may be drawn in the sense of an official document.
 From a political point of view, I think that Amendment No 19 can be interpreted as a defeat tactical or a step backwards tactical instead of a real commitment, which is not worthy of the cause of women.
 Prisioneras were held.
 Also Portugal, where women are not had access to the "revolution diplomacy until April 1974", has demonstrated recently, in the case of East Timor and our ambassador in Indonesia, Ana Gomes, that the role of a woman and his sensitivity to the problems and the suffering of a people that faced alone a fight for freedom of 25 years can be ways throughout the world and, in particular, here in the European Parliament.
 To date, only a few Member States have done so.
 It is therefore necessary to take this into account when preparing the political dimension of the European Union in the future.
 Unfortunately, it is to define the concepts and make distinctions.
 The Council, please convey our protest.
 Are people with different experiences; experiences necessary in the way in which it holds the policy, especially in the management of the conflict.
 The debate is closed.
 Which brings me to my second point if it wishes to regulate the sector, we must look at a number of points.
 The last few weeks I have learned that there is a great deal of interest on the part of the international trade union circles and certain national trade unions.
 Allegation against two: then agree with a salary for amas home?
 It makes life easier for many families and promotes equal opportunities.
 Often, in this project will have joined two or three families to put together a person.
 We were at the plenary session of this first part-session in October, while the debate was held on the situation in Yugoslavia, when we learned of the reaction of the Serbian people, courageous and immediately, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the lifting of international sanctions.
 In this way, Europe has shown the vitality of its civilisation, within the framework of the history of the world, and their ability to creative imagination policy for its future development.
 It is clear that the issue of the situation in Kosovo is a democratic problem.
 On the other hand, we would like to have the opportunity to show that Europe is capable of developing the constitutional equality of Serbia and Montenegro within Yugoslavia by our own resources through the recognition of the real principles of democracy.
 I must say that I impresioné to him, about the way in which you controlled such a difficult situation, and at the same time for his determination.
 Next we manage in the Minutes, Mr Watson.
 Access to documents and information on the activities of the institutions enables citizens to supervise the governing bodies of the EU and encourages greater effectiveness.
 I think that an important amendment is the fifth annual report to be particularly examine documents that have to be kept secret or, at least, are kept secret.
 This issue is ambiguous, and it is also possible to enter and remain in force more restrictive rules, so that we have tabled amendments on this point, among others.
 The Committee on Foreign Affairs exempt rejects the idea of transparency, and automatically group, the documents relating to the foreign and security policy.
 If we want the rights of citizens to be truly effective, we need new staff posts for those who know how to guide specifically prepared citizens seeking information through the complicated maze of the institutions.
 These are important in order to achieve an internal advertising.
 I welcome the fact that Parliament has managed to create a large majority in favour of greater openness.
 Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for this excellent work.
 Mr President, the access and transparency in the European Union do not enjoy good reputation.
 If so, is mistaken, because that is the credibility and reliability of the European Union for the citizen.
 Many things are documents today and we would like to ensure that the widest possible access to many different types of documents from the most varied ways possible.
 Mr President, the position of the Commission with regard to public access to documents can be seen in the manual domestic was sent on 11 October the employees of the Commission to report on how we are to handle applications for public access to the documents presented by the members of the European Parliament.
 This provision must be eliminated or, at least, so that the enlarged to include consideration of assessing the applicant's interest.
 The usual way in which develops cooperation at international level with the rules of the game and uses diplomacy, that is to say, that everything is carried out with the cortinas falls, there is no point in the modern cooperation which has developed the EU.
 We must not conflating it with the role of the European Parliament or with the future interinstitutional agreements.
 I believe that we have taken a step forward in the exercise of the right of the citizen to information and knowledge.
 However, it is not the only one who thank it deserves, thank you very much, Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen of the PPE-DE Group, which was the author of the proposal under the stricter application of the Hughes procedure.
 Transparency must establish itself as a basic pillar of all the activities of the Union, but the right of access to documents is not yet sufuciente itself for the realisation of transparency.
 The European Parliament asks, then, that the European security and defence policy is introduced in the future in the structures of the European Commission.
 When we spoke to Parliament, on 3 October last, President Prodi referred to the institutional triangle and referred to in a European system based on checks and balances, the flow of the operation of each institution contributes to the common interest.
 I must admit that the big challenge in this regulation is the precise definition of what are documents.
 I would like to stress that, at the time, the Commission could accept, virtually all the amendments, such as Amendment 9, 18, 21, 23, 25 in part, the 26.1 F, 28, 35, 38, the 40.1, the 40.6, 41.1, 42, the 43.1, 47, 49 and 52.
 Sometimes I would vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Commission, and to this end it is indeed necessary that Members have the list of amendments which the Commission can support and the list of those who do not want to support.
 The own funds of credit institutions
 Finally, and most controversial, the Commission issued a strong call for the use of a fast-track procedure for the implementation of this legislation.
 These amendments substituyen several other proposals in the report which are likely to be rejected in the vote and they will then be substituidas for these new amendments resulting from this consensus.
 Mr President, in view of the vote of support for this excellent report, and given the response of the Commission this morning, it is obvious - if we look at all the parts on which we have voted - which, on the basis of Article 69 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, we should postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution to initiate fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council.
 Mr President, I am sorry if I said that the PPE-DE Group had also requested that the vote be deferred, but your coordinator closer and I have told me that they also wanted to postpone the matter until the November II part-session, instead of voting now.
 The reason why I would suggest that the vote we refer to is that - as has been pointed out by Mr Goebbels - it is a very important issue.
 I do not know how much it costs a roll-call vote but it is without doubt of hundreds of thousands of francs, or Belgian francs, our budget.
 I know that entire herds have been slaughtered in France and I do not think that is the best way forward.
 Removing the animal meal in feedingstuffs for all animals, not only of the cattle and sheep, but also of the pig and poultry and fish,
 This is not acceptable.
 It is with these provisions will be reassured as as consumers and farmers will hear the message of solidarity that we give them.
 It is necessary and urgent to go further: promoting a change of the common agricultural policy.
 The need to ban the use of animal meal in cattle feed is not only the first step in this direction.
 Greatly regret that, on the contrary, that the amendments tabled by our Group were not adopted.
 I believe that it would be sensible to reduce the working hours of those who work in companies that pollute.
 I shall conclude by stressing once again on the fact that the generalisation of exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead us to adapt to the production of such waste.
 In fact, if, for example, had more pensions enough to live on, there would be less poor.
 The report raises a budget of EUR 100 million over five years to reduce poverty.
 I therefore give my unreserved support to the proposal to put in place a Luxembourg process bis in the area of social exclusion, which include guidelines and national action plans.
 Indeed, the report calls for fixing qualitative and quantitative indicators of social exclusion.
 In presenting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is complying with the Council ’ s request to present "for June 2000" A "initiative for cooperation in this field '.
 Mr President, I have abstained for a very specific reason: this report, in my opinion, has not done, from the ecological point of view, these improvements that I hoped and auguraba.
 I trust that this system is extended to all the cities of Europe.
 Some of the European Parliament's proposals are realistic and cannot count on my support.
 We must also be able to achieve a better in future be more publicly known good practices exist.
 The people who have high incomes and are aware of the environment have the freedom to choose a cleaner energy within a free market, while the rest is still able to choose.
 The next item is firstly the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
 These are the three reasons: firstly, because it makes in the process of consolidating democracy and the deepening of the requirement of respect for human rights, particularly in relation to the indigenous populations.
 Mr President, in this debate, as we express very well what was said by other colleagues who have spoken before me in the use of the word solidarity and support our institution of the Central American Parliament at a time when we are fighting for the continuation of the priority in the field of external relations of the European Union with the countries of Latin America.
 The reservations that I have not been able to express our dear friend and colleague, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, Mr Seguro, in relation to the issue of human rights.
 Finally, in the dialogue with the authorities, the Commission is also centroamericanas by reiterating the importance to be given to the process of regional integration as an instrument for consolidating the democratisation and development in the region.
 To cling to power has not hesitated to overtake the obsessive debate on the "marfilidad", causing a wave of hatred xenophobia: on the other, the coming from abroad, or at maliense and Burkina Faso, however, there are many people working and living in the territory of Côte d'Ivoire for many years.
 The establishment of a true democracy in the Ivory Coast, it will not be possible without the creation of an independent committee of inquiry of the crimes committed, and without the official commitment to respect human rights and civil peace.
 Some believe that the relative importance of democracy is when it comes to Africa, which are complex procedures, which must be given time, I do not think there is any possible compromise with democracy and the question which is raised today for Ivory Coast is the same as that which arises for example Guinea, when we know today that there are people in prison and that there is a democratic system.
 I shall conclude with the following question: there are dictatorships, Mr President, just because there are people who are suffering from poverty, which do not have access to information, which do not have access to knowledge.
 It would be unreasonable to demand that the European Union today, the holding of new elections that could take part in the presidential elections, this time, all the candidates.
 This is in many parts of Africa more with the various mixtures religious and ethnic minorities.
 These elections must allow the representation at national level of the political parties that were excluded in the presidential election and compensate for this, if only partially, the imperfections of this first choice.
 On the situation in Burma
 They are doing a great offensive against the Shan people and against the Karen people and, as the rapporteur has said that of the UN, there is no sign of any dialogue between the SPDC and the National League for Democracy.
 Therefore, we reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the Commission and the Council in this direction.
 I hope that in giving priority to this issue as a matter of urgency, this Parliament will send a clear message to the people of Burma that its pressing situation is not forgotten and we recognise that the situation in Burma is getting worse rather than better and we are determined to try to do something about it.
 Much has been achieved.
 Precisely in Asia is the danger that the reforms and economic policies, that there can be desacoplen economic progress and economic liberalization without liberalisation in the political sphere and without strengthening the rule of law, although I am of the opinion that without a constitutional state that functions, trade, aid and investment will be lost in the long term.
 Mr President, I agree with my predecessors on the floor with many important points of what you have said today, as much of what is happening in Vietnam is not acceptable.
 With all now says, Human Rights Watch, made reference to Mr Swoboda, that the last time in Vietnam has taken some steps to improve the situation with regard to human rights.
 These provide a secret documents extremely strange look behind the scenes of the policy of the Vietnamese administration.
 The Commission is still convinced, however, that can only be a lasting solution to the current situation through a dialogue between the military regime, the opposition and the democratically elected representatives of the ethnic minorities.
 There are also clear pressures of the Vietnamese authorities to its own press has a regime of self-censorship.
 The next item is now, the debate on the following motions for resolutions:
 We demand that the EU should also help and assistance, not only in the south-west but in all the areas that have been affected.
 I would ask you all to support our resolution.
 It is urgent that the European Union is not restricted to deploy actions extraordinary when disasters which have occurred.
 The Commission has taken two initiatives in this respect.
 Mr President, there has been a mistake by introducing a purely linguistic amendments in the joint resolution.
 The vote on her deferring means postponing the task to the Commission.
 (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 The report is based on the premise that an increasing part of the insurance in Europe is covered by insurance complementary.
 I find it strange that the Commission now wants to maniatar towards a proposal for a directive, but at the same time being asked a Green Paper on the current state of the voluntary associations and complementary medical insurance.
 In an era in which the population ageing dramatically, it is crucial that try to improve the system for the health of people throughout Europe.
 We could not contribute to this.
 Mr President, there are strong arguments in favour of the fast track when it comes to implementing the results of the review of the Basle Committee on banking capital adequacy.
 In these circumstances, such an initiative would rather the opposite effect to the expected by our obligations to banking sectors without additional guarantees compensation; despite the appeals of this House, the Commission does not have any means to ensure that the banks of the European Union will no longer be subject to discriminatory treatment by the American authorities.
 We must take care that Basle, moreover, does not produce that banks causes a second ballast higher demand of their own resources.
 This fact first comment, I should like to point out that I believe that economic operators also consider satisfactory the approach which has been giving these regulations on the capital they strengthen the issues relating to risk.
 These are first thoughts on how we might achieve a legislative process to be rapid and efficient control within the current rules of the Treaty.
 And, indeed, the time has come to admit that the institution of the Ombudsman is "" sufficiently developed and has already given sufficient evidence of maturity to have its own budget.
 The EPP / ED Group supports the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the mandate of the European Ombudsman should be extended, and the sooner the better, especially as regards the Ombudsman's investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the decision of 1994.
 An Ombudsman is obviously limited by the rules governing the secret documents, but it is right that the citizens know that he or she, as Ombudsman can have access to the documents that they themselves do not have.
 The starting point of this report is ombudsmann the recommendation of the Commission, in relation to this, which allows the candidates access to their examinations already corrected regarding the selection procedure for the same crime.
 We believe that the Community institutions should be able to carry out its procedures for recruitment of staff and, indeed, all its procedures, with the maximum openness and transparency in order to avoid the allegations of bias, injustice and administrative incompetence.
 I am referring here to an amendment concerning the requirement of the indisputable proof of developing an oral test, for example.
 Our colleague, Mr Bösch, has already explained briefly here the amendments that have been made in this report.
 Having made related questions to the Commission on the management and organisation of the last internal opposition, received detailed and specific answers.
 So we are starting to open the process of government and transparent.
 Firstly, the tests that are on the part of the Commission, the corrections are always an anonymous.
 Obviously I was talking about July 2000.
 Votes
 (Parliament rejected the proposal to postpone the vote)
 To assess the directive on own resources of the institutes credit must be sopesados carefully so that the various interests come into conflict.
 Then came the idea of a European police academy for the Member States of the European Union and for the applicant countries.
 This is also the position defended by the rapporteur and that of the European People's Party shares.
 The social situation in most of the Member States of the European Union is such that, in fact, there is a great need for cooperation between the different police forces beyond the borders of their own country.
 It seems that the majority of those who have spoken so far considers that it is essential that the College has a permanent headquarters.
 The umpteenth interim decision but not a regalito precarious, that the Council is usually done in this Parliament.
 The rapporteur wishes to add the prevention of crime, the provision of services, innovation and patrols and also wants to change the internal security so that include the maintenance of law and order.
 Those were the ideals that are proposed and that was the kind of state on which they worked.
 I welcome the possibility of evening out the standards of some Member States of the European Union.
 Since the first thoughts on this dossier to be made at European level on the initiative of the European Parliament, the Commission undertook to the Member States to make progress on an action intended to develop what we could consider a European police rooted culture with the highest standards of deontología, respect for the freedoms and rights of citizens and effectiveness in the fight against crime.
 This means that the Police College will develop above all from the perspective of a conference.
 For the reasons which, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
 - (SV) I have voted against the creation of interim report on the European police college.
 Certainly many of our courts are very slow and ponderosos, and it is very difficult to act quickly in these matters.
 Of course, the proposed regulation is not perfect, since it is linked to the Brussels II regulation "", which does not include children whose parents are separated, as well as children extramatrimoniales.
 My own mother was such a separation and abduction 85 years ago, and even talk about this.
 Therefore, what I would like to say that Parliament is on the action programme on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the field of civil law - whose adoption of hope here at the end of this year - the Commission is proposing to give top priority to the first and the extension of the scope of the Brussels II regulation and, therefore, this regulation on the right to visit, covering without discrimination to the children of married couples and the unions of fact.
 We shall now proceed to the vote.
 Today, sport and we say is closely linked to other economic sectors, such as, for example, the industries of the audiovisual sector or the promotion and sale of products sporting events.
 What we need is an intelligent and flexible interpretation of the current rules.
 It is rigorously, an attack against democracy, as much as we see things in this light.
 That is why the Commission is shortly to awaiting a response to your request for detailed information on the measures planned by the UK Government.
 This proposal was submitted by the Minister for the economy in a statement made pre-presupuestaria six months before the full presentation of the draft budget in the spring of 2001.
 Again, I believe that what Mr Simpson has said has been extremely helpful to reassure us on the likely intentions of the United Kingdom Government.
 The congestion are not only a loss of time, not only generate high costs, but to the environment are a problem, and that is why I believe, if the British Government really money allocated to solve these problems, then all will be something, particularly that of all the citizens of Europe.
 We are practically the only oil producer in the European Union and in spite of this, we have the higher prices of petrol, diesel prices highest compared with any other country in Europe - in Britain 1,20 paying GBP per litre of diesel.
 This item is closed.
 The European Parliament needs to know that it is at your side, and I propose that, once again, to observe a minute ’ s silence to express our solidarity and emotion.
 Madam President, I totally support, because I belong to those who have asked for the inclusion of this point.
 We some important developments.
 The EU deepen its relations with all the major groups and will also in contact with the new government of the United States as soon as possible.
 The agreement on Prescott he had been produced, how it is that not only Mrs Voynet, but also, I believe, the majority of the other European environment ministers - and this is my last question to the comisaria- rejected it?
 It is to be feared that has lost momentum and the American negotiators change and may have to start again.
 This time the forests have been major obstacle.
 A part of the soil of the countries of the European Union will become desert or sea as a result of continuous warming to which they are subjected.
 The level of wealth is high and the price of oil products under.
 I would like to thank Commissioner Wallström for her efforts in the Hague and I wish you more success.
 Certainly not reach an agreement was better than a bad agreement, and in this case the American position was a position of concessions, totally unacceptable for Europe.
 Climate change have major consequences in developing countries.
 I would like to repeat it in English: forest turns from being carbon sinks to carbon sources.
 Only this credibility will lead the position that the European Union and the action in the COP VI "B" in Bonn.
 We are going to have to do our own assessment of what happened and to prepare documents in contact with the various parties and, of course, with the 'group of broad representation ".
 Of course, the monitoring of the forthcoming COP6 or the continuation of COP6 will ratify an agreement within the Union.
 Before the European Council, Pierre Moscovici and I myself will be the next Sunday a ministerial conclave to which I have invited Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, as well as a session of the IGC, on Monday, at the General Affairs Council.
 The minimum number of Member States were to participate was to limit of eight clause, and the appeal to the European Council, which is currently a genuine right of veto, being replaced by a right of knowledge.
 One might regret this, but I am obliged to make this observation.
 The European Council also discussed the progress of accession negotiations, and therefore of enlargement.
 The Lisbon European Council had approved guidelines to promote an innovative and competitive European economy.
 Consumer protection is a growing concern of Europeans, for obvious reasons that do not require further explanation.
 We must prepare for this unprecedented enlargement.
 Unfortunately, the present text of the Conference is very complicated, very ambiguous and very long, with two protocols: however, despite this scope and complexity, this is very weak, it also provides us with the simple answer to us is for the simple problem that we have for a long time.
 (Applause)
 One was that the candidate Member States themselves should adopt and implement the acquis communautaire; this is the task which share with us.
 We deeply regret the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we do not want to confine ourselves to declamarla.
 It is true that its wording could have been better, and may well be perfected and put forward after Nice.
 I find it unacceptable that a number of governments have refused outright to consider the possibility of including a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
 You do not even want to introduce into the Treaty and this is proof that this document, this exercise has had to leave that to one side.
 We will be discussing with only a thankless and vote in the WTO.
 Given the uncertain prospects of success, I do not think it right burdening the Intergovernmental Conference with another matter extremely complex and controversial.
 I would make an urgent appeal to the French Presidency in order to make every effort to remove this rejection, because it is extremely destructive.
 In terms of commercial policy, the Commission has drawn up a proposal which must be examined carefully.
 Although in the previous Treaty was made some progress in the implementation of this formula, also provided the absurd formula of codecision more unanimity for matters relating to citizenship, social security, the rights of workers on their own account and also the cultural policy.
 The simple approach to this question is clearly demostrativo alone, the failure of a policy of strengthening the links of mutual trust between the countries of the Union.
 This is the situation in which we have enfrascado months ago at this Intergovernmental Conference, and the reason is that nobody abandoning their toys.
 This year ’ s experience compels us to say that we must give impetus to the process of constitutionalisation of the Union after Nice and looking to the future of Europe should not be entrusted to the method, already exhausted, reserved for negotiation between the representatives of the governments.
 Very well, as Mr Prodi has just pointed out, if it is not adopted a rule on the majority decision-making is hopelessly obstructed.
 Our debate today is nothing was said on that aspect of subsidiarity, but it is very important.
 So what happened did, the 1995 enlargement, came the reflection group which has very rightly Carlos wensterdorp wine, Amsterdam and Nice and we are now going to be almost like, Mr President, by considering the institutional issues, without finding solutions that will enable us to give way to a ambiciosísima task, which is that enlargement to 27.
 Let us not add to the disappointment that will lead to the Nice Summit, if that Nice is, of course, it is futile to the peoples, the disappointment caused by our Parliament.
 In the past we have shown that this objective was achievable and, as a representative of a Member State that has benefited from a transition to the planned accession, I take a positive attitude to the achievement of an enlarged Europe and peaceful.
 But we must understand that if you are the right of veto, also have the other.
 But we must also make a first transition to Parliament which will be elected in 2004, because at least some Member States joining before they choose the new Parliament in 2004 or during its term of office until 2009.
 The President of the Council has dealt with the issue of closer cooperation and has said that it is moving towards a consensus in this regard.
 Mr President, at first sight, Nice is the necessary adjustments and the issues still not resolved in the run-up to enlargement.
 If we had something of this mentality, if we were to do less emphasis on what goes wrong in this part of the world and put more emphasis on what is good, it would be more fortunate than we are at the moment.
 The majority decisions to be taken by the Council does not only apply to goods, but also to other related areas such as services, investment, intellectual property and competition in paragraph 1 of Article 133 has to be amended in this respect.
 The European Parliament's right of initiative would open the way for the arbitrariness of the parties also invading end this extremely sensitive area.
 Therefore, as one of you said, by referring to the American optimism and the way in which the Americans speak for themselves, we should also stress what works and what progress.
 I would like to say that I do not believe that there is a problem between small and large countries.
 We have worked very hard, but we are facing this long-standing problem, and I do not think we can start a plan for the development of a single country, because we are, once again, twelve of the fifteen Member States, a few realities - national policies, democratic - very important.
 Lastly, Mr President, you Védrine has highlighted a tense situation too and also talked about certain pessimism.
 How will you, furthermore, general measures to enhance the safety of appropriate forms for something that does not happen?
 In my opinion, we need to adopt the appropriate precautions - something that we have not yet - for which the guests of this Parliament can be pleased, without having to be afraid of potential threats to this end, we must create the necessary technical conditions, both from the point of view of the organisation and from the security point of view.
 Here, there and hospitality hospitality respect.
 Thank you for your contribution, Mr Tajani.
 The best tribute to lluch Ernest and his memory is respecting its message -diàleg, in catalán-: can we offer all this opportunity to the Basque people?
 On the other hand, each Member State can, of course, express their opinion.
 (B5-0550 / 2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, to the Commission, on the political situation in Afghanistan and humanitarian aid.
 When I speak of organisation, I should also like to say that, given the enormous efforts made by the European Union, it is logical that it is the responsibility of the same.
 Secondly, you will see in the resolution the very clear intention of Parliament to base the common security and defence policy on two pillars: balanced civil crisis management and, in the event of failure, the military management, since both are complementary pillars.
 - (FR) Mr President, bearing in mind the delay and also my obligations, that we try to make the speech I had prepared.
 These relations are plasmarán specifically in Council meetings between the North Atlantic and the copsi and meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European countries candidates or allies.
 For example, look at what has happened in the Balkans, where we can say that each of us has played its role fully.
 Also in this period we have kept fully informed of progress in the United States the title of course to the European security and defence policy, which is a sine qua non for the same develops in harmony, as is happening at the moment.
 In the European Parliament was the second edition of the annual European Union report on human rights on 13 December will be organised in Paris a forum devoted to human rights.
 This policy, you will say, has no ambition compete with the Atlantic Alliance, which today remains the basis of the collective defence of its members, or create a permanent European army.
 On the other hand, while I mentioned the figure of 100 military, that does not mean that ambicionemos overcome the objective laid down in Helsinki, but we have a reserve in qualifications and in different specialities, which allows us to ensure that we will reach the 60 000 men which correspond to the objective of the Council, beyond the operational conditions of their use.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few words to raise profound political sense, approved by a large part of our public opinions, this new task, whereby Europe becomes a tool of political influence that I was.
 We now face the problem of ensuring that, when we talk of consolidation of liberal democracy in Europe, we refer to the whole continent of Europe, because that is the enlargement and the process of enlargement.
 We must involve three ramales into a coherent whole: Community policies, CFSP, including the ESDP, and national measures of the Member States.
 Even with our laborious procedures of the Commission, we do not need a force of 60 000 soldiers to achieve our objectives.
 It is therefore urgently necessary to establish a solution of humanitarian aid.
 Although it is true that I do not agree with those who say that Europe cynical achieved with this new game impracticable, it is true that the rapid reaction force will not be versatile in many situations.
 The EU should not develop a defence system itself with regular troops.
 Finally, I would like to express my group's concern for the worsening situation in Afghanistan and urge the Commission and the Council to do all they can to achieve a peaceful solution and to help the population, especially now the entry of winter.
 To put it simply: where, when and how the Union must act intervention force.
 They understand the terrible situation of these two months of ":" intifada 270 Palestinians dead, the majority, and nearly 10 000 injured, often baldados for life.
 Hence also his relentless efforts will serve to create an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction elimination extremely bleak.
 Secondly, contrary to what has been said by the previous speaker, I do not know whether it is possible or desirable for the European Union to do more than just before the conflict and the escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, in the period of transition that they are in the United States.
 Mr President, in my speech I shall focus on dealing with the report by Mrs Lalumière, which, to my mind, is well prepared and expresses clearly.
 There is a political concept, and indeed there is a common foreign and security policy.
 The EU has only a problem, namely that, until now, has not been able to awaken the interest of the public by such measures, despite the fact that they are much more sustainable and effective.
 Mr President, next year, of course, how the budget; it should be shared.
 And I say that, despite the enormous amount of apparent that guarantees on this matter have arisen miraculously in recent days.
 We should work together in a coordinated manner and we should be moving towards a better common European procurement of defence industry in order to have a more efficient offers added value in return for the money.
 Even those who question the usefulness of the decision, for example, create the so-called euroejército must repair the important political dimension of this decision and its influence in the cohesion of the European Union.
 It has been very historic first the presence of a Defence Minister in this House we have reserved for the night sitting of the impression that is not too strong for our Members.
 For all of them, a civilian crisis management is a preventive means better than the military solutions.
 Russia would, in the long term, to participate in a political Union with an undemocratic regime?
 Therefore, Europe is not going to be a new alliance, as I think I have heard mentioned in an argument informed way incomplete.
 I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 42 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up this debate.
 In view of the enormity of the task, was given to four committees and established a procedure unprecedented, with four reports in parallel.
 All the measures proposed in the Green Paper must agree on modernising and making all the effective functioning of the Commission.
 Therefore, it would be appropriate if the reform is the occasion to limit its intervention only in those areas which do not involve expenditure.
 The differences of opinion that emerged were not only of a political nature, but still more reflected the cultural differences between the fifteen Member States.
 The new internal audit service, under the direct responsibility of you, Mr Kinnock, the Vice-President responsible for reform will, as the main task of the analysis and the functions of the internal control systems which exist within the Commission.
 It has been a pleasure to work together, and I believe that the process of dealing with a crucial reform of the Commission, which is essential for the future of the European Union, has had a wealth added depth and thanks to the four of us participation.
 Can have expectations of relocation to other European institutions, implementation of committees of the national administrations in services or work in the private sector.
 In this way, our constitutional committee recalls its attachment to a strong, independent executive committee, efficient, transparent and politically responsible.
 As the Committee on Budgets consider that the introduction of activity-based budgeting causes us problems for the lack of visibility of expenditure and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament, as the budgetary authority.
 This will, of course, the goodwill of this Parliament to bring forward this reform with the Commission.
 Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the four rapporteurs for the excellent work he has done.
 This is disgraceful if we take into account that the EU itself is the first supporter of the modernisation of the economic life.
 Mr President, despite the efforts of the rapporteurs to support the work of the Commission, is that the recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts is not yet a global and coherent response with a view to a policy of government and not only to better management of the institution.
 This change of attitude should result in the transparency of its administration.
 From my point of view, the world is not a structure which magazine greater significance and fundamental: fifteen States and twenty or more in the future, an entire continent; the more industrialised currently part of the globe, late in the Union and, through it, the Commission through its structures.
 The change is never easy.
 In doing so, however, we in the Socialist Group believe that the current functioning of the Community is quite effective public administration.
 The result is well known, has indicated that the commitment and the competence of the many Members of the Commission and its administration.
 Many thousands of projects requests for more than a year we have already been waiting for an evaluation.
 The debate, as we have seen, is not so much of principles, objectives or the opportunity of reform, the procedures, pace, timetable, possible malfunctions or unintended consequences of its implementation.
 I should like to begin by informing the House that at its meeting this morning, as has been pointed out by Mr van Hulten, the College has adopted a draft interinstitutional agreement for the establishment of an advisory group on basic standards in public life, as envisaged in the action 1 of the action programme of the White Paper.
 Furthermore, it is clear that such changes would only be possible with a modification of the Treaties.
 The main objective is to achieve a simplification, increase transparency and strengthen the budgetary principles, that is to say, in particular less derogations, less special arrangements incomprehensible and increase efficiency and effectiveness in the budgetary procedure.
 It is actually very uneconomic for the Commission in the contracts for the costs will be reimbursed X, costs for 20% and 30% and often join and check the comprobantes very small sums.
 The next item is the joint debate on the report (A5-0337 / 2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of the European Union's relations with the developing countries and the impact of the reform of the Commission in these relations (2000 / 2051 (INI)).
 These latter aspects relating in particular to the NGOs.
 Of course, it is not enough, but with all must have safe from the cartoons on the shortage of our development assistance.
 This once again now, that is in itself a good framework.
 Mr President, I returned today of Mozambique, where the European Union has been responsible for a brilliant humanitarian aid after the disaster of floods, but, once again, the reconstruction projects, which we have already allocated money behind schedule, are waiting for the signatures in Brussels.
 In view of these realities, the need for greater involvement and greater efficiency in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment is inevitable.
 We now have a harmonised approach to prepare for the country strategy papers and indicative programmes of cooperation in all developing countries.
 Furthermore, the creation of the SEM failed to provide a solution to the continuing disparity between 8 voluminosos administrative resources.
 - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the reason why we had a very special interest to be with you today in this debate on the first package of shipping in the European Parliament, is that you are going to consider three important texts, which are an essential first step on a subject that recent events have placed, unfortunately, on the front page of today.
 From the point of view of the Presidency of the Council, this could afford, moreover, to discuss with the Member States, an agreement on the basis of the proposals tabled by you, and adopt the text at first reading with qualified majority if necessary.
 The rapid treatment and specialised result has been that the two Erika packages and six proposals has generated an enormous boost.
 The lesson that Parliament must retain this morning is that, obviously, the maritime law throughout the world is in a state of indefinición and we have to begin the process of put in order.
 We must give a clear signal that the waters and ports will not tolerate vessels that do not meet the standards.
 For small vessels, we adopted a position of compromise between the limit of the 5 000 tonnes, raised by the IMO, and 600, proposed by the Commission.
 These data should be made available to the European authorities, and port state, as well as the public interest.
 The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, aboca to the need for a Community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental contamination.
 Cooperation in the field of local organisations have been included for the protection of nature.
 To amend the directive in the sense of a greater rigour in their implementation, harmonization of the legislation, particularly with regard to the selection of the vessels subject to inspection and the scope of the various types of inspection, is clearly positive.
 I would like to point out once again that there is urgency, in which you insist.
 I believe that in the case of the limit of the liability of classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today, it is important that the Council and Parliament will reflect together on this.
 The black box, a black list and everything else we appear to be excellent ideas and we fully agree with them, but I would like to stress a few points.
 Faced with this catastrophic situation and anarchic maritime transport, Europe has accepted the challenge and eleven months after the Erika disaster, the European Union will be in a position to announce that never any procedure has worked so quickly.
 It is clear to what extent the liberal logic objects, in fact, a high degree of safety at sea.
 Finally, regardless of the technical measures to be taken, one of the largest sources of uncertainty will continue to exist as long as it does not reequilibre, in the area of the Channel and the North Atlantic, the exponential growth of the hipertrofia traffic in the North Sea ports.
 You save itself to the current President of the Council ordenara that the situation in their own country.
 Mr President, since the sinking of the oil tanker Erika has been tabled under political pressure a series of measures in order to increase the safety of ships in the sea.
 Some Greek ships collapsed without further, Mr Gayssot, without storms.
 Thirdly, when we talk of this type of report, I think that it is becoming clear that is not linking the relationship between, on the one hand, the supply of oil and, on the other hand, the fact that it still fossil fuel use of origin.
 Therefore, at last we have the political courage to our environmental ambitions.
 This means that, in this field more than any other, our responsibility is huge, and that we must, in my view, silence any indication of institutional self-respect.
 For example, Finland is of the utmost importance that Russia sign these agreements.
 It is the strengthening of the requirements for the construction of vessels of oil tankers, improving the rules for port controls and greater severity of the rules for organisations and peritaje inspection of ships, which is a consequence of what I have just said.
 Mr President, today we are debating the maritime safety on three rapporteurs whose reports congratulate her.
 With regard to these three proposals relating to maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs, who have shown in extremely short deadlines that Parliament is very determined to adopt new measures to increase safety at sea, the controls, the construction standards and it is intolerable that accidents similar recur.
 Madam President, in the recent past several considerable consequences of marine accidents, especially those who were involved in the oil, have shaken our continent.
 But 80% of accidents are connected with human error, but there is reason to human error, which are social order.
 A parliamentary or parliamentary has used the term 'traceability'.
 The port state control directive is designed to monitor compliance with international requirements and not to introduce new rules.
 Amendment No 18 introduces the port state control because in relation to rest periods of fishermen, while the implementation of the provisions relating to the working hours of seamen already is fully covered by the Directive 99 / 95.
 I am pleased to see that the rapporteur has introduced in Amendment No 21 a reference to the evaluation of the conditions and we agree with the proposal perspective, however, it is necessary that complies with the wording in order to make it clearer.
 Amendment No 4 and part of 18 relating to point K "'are not acceptable.
 I can assure you that if a ship owner intends to include in these registers, following our proposal must consider whether twice.
 The Commissioner spoke for 18 minutes, and during that time, mentioned dozens and dozens of articles, and has rejected the Commission's position.
 Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council in relation to a range of measures relating to the trans-European network of collection, creating and disseminating statistics on the vencimientos intra of goods and extra-comunitarios (EDICOM) (COM (00) 0458 - C5-0401 / 00 - 2000 / 0201 (COD)) (Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs)
 However, to withdraw the resolution, I am convinced that, with a view to the Nice Council, Parliament would have done better to hear your voice devoting a specific resolution and different from the difficult and important issues of the Intergovernmental Conference, instead of treating them in the field of a single resolution that includes all the other items on the agenda of the Council.
 (given that there were more than twelve Members stood up, the oral amendment was rejected) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
 Report (A5-0337 / 2000) by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the effectiveness of the relations between the European Union and the developing countries, and the impact of the reform of the Commission on these relations (2000 / 2051 (INI))
 I voted against in protest at the fact that the European Union should also as still fails to intervene in this matter.
 Despite that neither the proposal to amend the existing directive on the control of ships or the Watts report correspond to the real needs are steps in the right direction, which is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted in favour of the report.
 We regret that the proposal that the Commission has not taken up the idea of creating a genuine European monitoring body, along the lines of "coast guards" in the United States.
 - (EL) precondition for the safety of ships, for the protection of life at sea and environmental protection is the fight against the immunity of the shipowners, who enjoy the adoption of strict measures for the control of the situation of the ships and the imposition of strict penalties to shipping companies which violate the safety standards; also, improving the working conditions of employees in the Merchant Navy, and give them the appropriate training, as well as ensuring composiciones compounds which respond to the growing needs of vessels.
 The rapporteur Hatzidakis, unfortunately, has done the opposite.
 The sinking of the Erika, in December 1999, is at the origin of the emergence of the issue of maritime safety in the Community policy agenda and was under pressure from Parliament and the Commission proposed texts which we have voted today, almost a year after this sinister shipwreck.
 The current compensation funds have not been properly equipped and this has done more than obvious in the case of the Braer disaster, in which the fishing industry of the Shetland Islands has not been properly compensated for their losses.
 Madam President, I have already said that a few years ago I had the opportunity to travel.
 The rapporteur's proposals concerning the harmonisation at European level are entirely positive.
 This is an important point which concerns the classification societies of ships.
 Rather, it would be a great success for the Europe that we need, on the eve of enlargement, Europe is not a rigid, jerarquizada, remote, but a Europe which is close to the people, flexible and therefore based on respect for national democracies.
 The increasingly open struggle for power between many Member States muddies the possibilities to achieve a compromise.
 The most important task of Nice is to ensure that the EU institutions have effective.
 A week after the summit, I personally hope.
 Nor am I in favour of linking automatically qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure and also think that any initiative to extend the powers of codecision must be taken on a case-by-case basis.
 To amend Article 133 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Europe would extend qualified majority voting in the Council, which is currently in force for the trade in goods, to other areas such as public services, intellectual property, health or education.
 In this way Parliament do not do the right of influence, passes in silence as a tribute to the partidismos, the national governments and fidelidades and forgets its obligations towards the citizens.
 I also voted against a text which calls for the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the future Treaty to be adopted in Nice.
 It is a mistake to divide the Union into two groups and that is why I cannot support the idea of a third of the Member States to go ahead.
 Its new role has put an end to the neutrality of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Austria.
 In this report there are many things that the Group of the consevadores British can support, in particular the emphasis in the enlargement of the European Union.
 The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have supported the report concerning the creation of a common European security and defence policy.
 But also against the peoples of the European Union that will have to finance, in any case, the new expenditure on armaments proposed in the report and which does not even have the guarantee that the military forces not used a day against themselves, in the name of "maintaining order".
 Equally serious is the claim that a state which does not wish to participate in a mission will be obliged to pay a financial contribution that shared out the States participating in this war.
 However, with military means outside not achieved any solution, because this does not alter the cause of conflict or change public opinion.
 · the military operations should be financed with a Community budget line and that Member States should contribute with funds even if it does not wish to participate in operations (paragraphs 49 and 50).
 On the other hand, the EU would suit it invirtieran priorities of the Petersberg tasks and attention to address the humanitarian and civilian options.
 I support this report by my colleague Maj-Britt Theorin.
 But there is no mention the needs of this category to give way to the demand for a deducibilidad tax of the services sector and a "adaptation of prices and costs to the financial resources of the private sector".
 In reality, it is extraordinary that in the 21st century we have to recommend that the Member States should guarantee for domestic servants the right to social security and a proper retirement.
 For many young people, its first contact with the labour market can be a black economy.
 What is more serious than when it comes to women from distant countries, who took this type of work by need and who have no other means of earning a living on a lasting basis.
 The reform of the Commission will be judged by the facts, hence the need for regular monitoring reports presented during the entire period of the duration of the programme and the importance of full account delayed in December 2002.
 In the recent past, various scandals and dysfunctions in concluded, in March 1999, with the resignation of the Commission.
 Finally, I must remind you that through this reform, which is crucial to the future, at the same time we expect more rigorous and more transparency on the part of the Commission in its day-to-day management, but also a greater sense of responsibility for its part, the strict framework of its competences.
 Also the Conservatives support the statement contained in paragraph 7 of the report to which we should ensure democratic control and that this should be allowed to operate in the system of the three pillars.
 (The sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
 We have received the information - and I would like to add immediately that I cannot creerla at all - that the President of the Council and head of the French State is going to appear here tomorrow only 30 minutes to speak.
 Therefore, I believe that we should exclude that we have a well-considered position and argumentada.
 Whatever we do, we, and I am in favour of a resolution as suggested by Mr Poettering, Mr.
 In the course of the night has worked in both these texts as in the figures relating to the distribution of votes in the Council and the distribution of seats in Parliament.
 Madam President, I would like to call for not be removed from the agenda this report by Mr de Roo, because, in addition to be very well prepared, at the last Council of Environment of the French Presidency, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday next week, it is planned to prepare a common position on this matter.
 Thank you, Mr Parish.
 In the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, in your capacity as President, feels there and smoking.
 The political basis is clear: to harmonise the market with a high level of public health and consumer protection on the basis both in the existing rules and the development of scientific knowledge.
 What is at stake and their quality of life, in the concept that the protection of public health is a very relevant weight.
 This rule can also be applied to all drugs fun but dangerous, if no one else that the consumer can be affected.
 Recently in the United States they have earned trials against the tobacco multinationals for poison and lying on the absence of toxicity of the products.
 We believe that the only possible and consistent is to destroy the exports of cigarettes are prohibited in the EU for health reasons.
 Rather than draw lessons from failure recorded in Luxembourg on 9 October, we insist on a legally indefensible attitude.
 I have studied carefully what the Commissioner said to my colleague Mr Hume: "There can be no massive loss of jobs in this sector.
 It is the Parliament and the Council have to approve this proposal for a directive and to examine, among other things, the proper legal basis for this.
 Mr Maaten and others -, there is a danger that, if this Parliament and the Council accept the restrictive interpretation, as proposed by the leader of the European People's Party and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this Parliament, the Council and the institutions as a whole be atando of flesh and blood for the development of the legislative institutions, which is so important for the development of Community law.
 The weak point of this proposal is that it puts a lot of emphasis on the promotion of free competition.
 In conclusion, since the signing of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Parliament has powers of coordination on environmental issues and consumer protection, and collaborate closely, of course, with the Council and the Commission in this field.
 In reality this has nothing to do with tobacco, but that the judgment of the Court of Justice could have also been dictated to ban the advertising of alcohol advertising or chocolate because, obviously, sugar may also be harmful to health.
 I simply do not understand that a majority of this Parliament to propose to relax the rules relating to the export more than proposed by the governments of the Member States themselves - governments also represent the many industries that refers.
 It is a proven fact that 80% of smokers to stop it, but in the sector tabaquero encourages very few policies designed to help these people to stop smoking.
 If we say to the other countries what standards of public health must set to increase our exports reasonable proposals for the internal market, threatens all the good work done by Mr Maaten.
 We want to see a method of testing recognized in all countries of the EU, to carry out in a given country in a laboratory testing recognised.
 Today we fully recognise the effects on health of tobacco consumption, and therefore the public as legislators share the feeling that the time has come to adopt strict rules and regulations in this area.
 Consequently, the Community rules encajarán perfectly in the future international agreements, thus avoiding the risk of the obstacles to trade and at the same time strengthening the protection of consumers and guaranteeing a high level of health protection.
 It would be preferable to wait until it has been dealt with the issue of additives in its entirety in the first report of the Commission.
 As regards the laboratory tests, the amendment relating to the approval of evidence is superfluous, since the other article already foresees the movement of goods which comply with the provisions of the directive.
 Madam President, this report is not complications: at the present time, the directives on summertime are only five years in force, and then have to go back to Parliament for its renewal.
 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the provisions on the summer time, considering that there is a good proposal.
 I think, therefore, that this House should not take too long on this subject, because the Member States, as well as the population, have already accepted in large measure the regulation of summer time and this has been recognised as part of our annual rate.
 In my view, it is appropriate that the issues relating to slots and with the application of the provisions of the summer time left, in accordance with the proposal, in the area of decision making in the Member States.
 It would be more reasonable for the end of summer time at the end of September, some six months of its inception.
 It can accept the presentation of proposals on the basis of the conclusions of the report by 2007 referred to in Article 5.
 It is clear that we cannot accept the interventions in the human germ line.
 Indeed, I believe that a committee on ethics, in which people work which does not work as the main profession, he cannot give a more long term, but on the authorities should exert a certain amount of pressure of time to get to work quickly.
 These groups should remain within the scope of the directive.
 But I am also glad that we have managed to take a cerrojazo therapy génica.
 I would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on his report and thank him for his efforts to reconcile the opposing positions.
 These programmes are connected with the fight against cancer, with the prevention of AIDS, the prevention of drug addiction and the promotion at health; and its interruption would mean the end of the projects and the work of the nets that are created for this purpose.
 It is a very good in theory, to prepare the ground so that, even in the event that it is necessary to carry out a second reading, be very close to the point at which the decisions are taken.
 Furthermore, we must take into account both the promotion and prevention and monitoring are going to be increasingly important, and we will therefore have to provide them with more budgets and give them more importance.
 Madam President, on the occasion of the Trakatellis report on the extension of the existing European programmes in the field of public health, I would like to express my concern about how and in what way the developing European policy in the area of public health.
 I understand that the Council has also given its consent in principle.
 In the European Union is currently produces the paradox that the abolition of the internal borders for the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must live with the maintenance of 15 borders in the fields of police and judicial criminal, that the Member States themselves in eliminating difficulties.
 To conclude, the initiative is an important step forward in the creation of a European judicial area criminal, albeit partial and limited, but responds to the real needs of a huge volume of European citizens that, until now, have been virtually helpless when they have been victims of crime outside the territory of their normal residence.
 What we have asked for this group of people?
 At the same time, we must ensure that special training professionals to his office which will have direct contact with the victims.
 The victims must not become people doubly penalised, first because of a crime and then because of the system.
 Also, in this context, it is important that they are of a report discreetly and professional way to the relatives, i.e. to the family of the victim of the facts, if they so wish, and that they can count on the support they need to know that we are all through the press.
 This applies regardless of the offence was committed.
 Never, in the field of the Member States or in the Community, we need to abandon the basic principle that human beings should always take responsibility for their actions.
 In other cases, it could be the information that is required in a language which is not of the Union itself.
 I welcome the positive response from Parliament before the first text on such an important issue, so that the area of freedom, security and justice that we are gradually building can offer our citizens support in situations that it is often difficult to bear.
 Vote on request for urgent procedure
 (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
 In this way, on the evening of 23 to 24 November we have agreed with the Council on the central points of a budget which is not brilliant though it is reasonable.
 That is why the Commission proposed a revision by EUR 300 million to the tooth and nail that opposed the Council.
 But I also know from the discussions that is even more difficult to ask a Council position negotiable, to obtain a mandate and ensure that the pure self-interest descend into a national decision pan-European more or less reasonable and defensible.
 I hope that the work on a common recruitment office, as stated in the modern German, namely a European authority of recruitment, so that we can really work together to overcome the problems that will arise in the coming years to all the institutions - the Council, like the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions -, namely the necessity of staff in the coming years.
 The Council refuses to carry out this revision appears that we should have the datos- and I would like to use the flexibility instrument to prevent: two years in a row, two consecutive years - in fact, in less than fifteen months, and the first of them at least six months after the adoption of the perspectivas- is financially emptying the flexibility instrument because it prevents replenishment and its possible accumulation, which is scheduled to a height of 600 million.
 This amount, which is so important to the existence of very high needs in 2001, can be financed mainly thanks to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to the value of EUR 200 million.
 In view of this new element, the Council has voted at second reading in an increased budget 2.5%.
 Finally, before you to proceed to the final adoption of this budget, I would like to stress the support of the Council in respect certain basic budgetary rules, in the field of implementation of appropriations in reserve, the legal basis and the classification of expenditure.
 Unlike in Nice, and I believe that the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission in general are very satisfied with the result.
 Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of new sick cows BSE was also need to act immediately in the budgetary sector, in particular for the protection of public health, consumer protection and also for aid to farmers affected by this situation.
 In addition, the Council has set for the framework programme on aid for reconstruction in the Balkans a multiannual indicative amount, of course, which is compatible with the financial perspective.
 With a great deal of effort, received a couple of million.
 I should like to thank Mrs Haug.
 We think that this 1% of the budget of the European Union is very well spent.
 You said, if I have understood correctly, that we should not use the reserve, because this was an infringement of the rules.
 I believe that we have seen, together with many other very positive things that I am not going to mention now due to the pressure of time.
 Despite that expenditure on agriculture, which represent almost half of the total budget, are increasing, once taken into account in the letter of amendment, over 5%, the total increase of the budget is only 3.5%.
 Because we see the great danger that in the next few years will increase the MEDA projects, confrontation between countries of the Mediterranean and the Balkans, although we all know that the money there is needed urgently.
 Satisfied to have overcome the difficulties that were so closely the path towards the objective of meeting the commitments made in Helsinki with candidate countries without undermining the Union, to allow the Europe of tomorrow which continue to function effectively.
 These are real, although it does not go as far as the presidency - which has shown, and I stress, national diploma, a great apertura- would have liked.
 Provision has been made for a new legal basis for the statute for European political parties, and Parliament is granted the status of complainant institutional laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty.
 These last few weeks there have been three important achievements.
 This is the sense of the declaration adopted in Nice and reflection initiated at European level to coordinate the fight against doping.
 Between the threats, is, as you all know, the overheating climate.
 Furthermore, in Nice, the European Union has established the permanent bodies necessary to define and to conduct a common foreign and security policy: a political and security committee, a military committee and a greater European state.
 For this cooperation, for their support and also for your reception, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the French Presidency.
 In these areas, in fact, the Conference has failed due to the intransigence of certain Member States with regard to this, I feel a deep disappointment not only for the short-term consequences, but through the encouragement of cerrazón, closure of misunderstanding, that conclusions can we draw from this position.
 A sense we must pay tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt too that has batido until the fund in the name of a fairer presence of the States that are candidates for accession and to become less unreasonable, despite the fact that it is still too high, the threshold of qualified majority voting in this way, has confirmed the great historic role in Belgium in the European Union.
 We now need to examine carefully the text in Parliament.
 I would point out, incidentally, Mr President of the European Council, that the costs taxpayers.
 I see it as a failure and not just in relation to the stated ambition of the European Union to change the institutions to be able to welcome new Member States correctly to improving the effectiveness of the European Union, but also a failure in connection with another important objective, which perhaps have mentioned very little, the approach of the European Union and the citizens.
 The questions are good for us which has made the impressive human tide that, since the whole of Europe, has convergido in Nice on the eve of the summit.
 Firstly, the Fifteen have signed hastily and teargas with the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
 (Applause)
 My group is disappointed by this Treaty and concerned for the future that to happen, so we shall oppose him with all our strength.
 You have the floor, Mr President.
 Finally, I would say to Mr Hager that the instrument of closer cooperation is, in my opinion, a useful tool to enable Europe to be a dynamic and that alumbre the way, as I said a short while ago, I believe, Mr.
 Mr President, I would like to know whether the authority of the European Parliament on the summer time is a new conquest of Nice.
 It desmoralizados until now by the complexity of clinical trials, laboratories, perhaps find the will expressed by both the Member States and by our Assembly, the courage to develop the market for paediatric medicines, even if it does not have the size enough to allow the recovery of investment!
 What is necessary to renew the change of summer time, that it was decided during the oil crisis, in order to save energy, and which had been extended until 2001?
 It is not always the situation of the protection of victims in criminal proceedings is due.
 As a result, many passengers and tourists will benefit from this European initiative.
 Mr President, I will speak only to welcome the President of the Commission, who is here, and the Council Presidency that is looming, and to stress that, probably, has never been expressed in this Parliament unanimously like this on the results of a summit.
 That works is that, in six months, under the leadership of the French Presidency, has ended, I believe, in spite of everything, for your work on six key chapters.
 However, my greatest fear is that Great Britain, France and Germany can now subvert the delicate balance of different sizes created between Member States and between the institutions over several decades.
 It is difficult to understand how the Nice decisions could facilitate the enlargement of the EU.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be very brief.
 For all these reasons, I can only draw the consequence of that when we vote on the Treaty of Nice, I am going to vote.
 Mr President, the most important result of Nice, in spite of everything, signed a treaty, so that it is now possible to space to the candidate countries.
 The real winners of this conference are Mr Blair and Mr Aznar, the "no" Europe.
 Then, after Nice, look at what comes after, and I hope that you sparking off my great progress with the draft Convention by Belgium for your Presidency, because it has been proved, that there are sheet, there needs to be a change of method, we need to accelerate the story: 2004 is too late, is far too, it is too dangerous.
 Instead, the spirit of Nice has been to ask how we can block, how can intergubernamentalizar, how can I praise one at home as a defender of national interests instead of working for the European Union really progress.
 After Amsterdam and Nice we are principados of a Europe, a Europe of national administrations and not the political unification of Europe.
 We cannot continue to face the lack of decision-making by qualified majority in the essential issues.
 It is true - parafrasearé Mr Bayrou - to turn this seat since this morning; the principle, accompanying the President of the Republic, and later, personally, and llueven criticism which, in my view, are moderate, friendly, but that does not, however, only be criticism.
 Indeed, we must not forget that this is the first time since 1957, reform, revising the model.
 We are in constitutional systems, the powers and cannot be confused.
 Thank you very much, Minister.
 But nor has been incorporated into the Treaties and there has been a reference to the Charter in paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
 Finally, there are some positive aspects: the new version of Article 7 of the Treaty; the article concerning the political parties and their status; the right of this Parliament to make to the other institutions before the Court of Justice: this is also an important factor of political control; the new formula for the European Commission, to include the so-called 'lex Prodi "in the Treaty, to strengthen the President and the new composition of the Commission: reasonable compromise which I accept and work with the time; and, as pointed out by my colleague Mr Tsatsos, is the way forward for the future.
 Mr President, we have already made a rigorous evaluation of what happened in Nice, but we should remember that the Nice summit began with a very limited agenda.
 Look at things: has not been included in the work of the Charter Treaty, or even an observation.
 We want to demonstrate to the Heads of Government that we know best.
 Despite the shocks of chest that the French Government has given this morning, frankly, the IGC has not concluded well.
 Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French Presidency during this debate is not here, because I understand that President Chirac's fault.
 Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that the Intergovernmental Conference has been outdated.
 2001 budget (continuation)
 However, this does not mean that they could not have done more and better to divide the two areas.
 This maxim obliges the Commission to establish priorities within a limited budget, as must do all administration.
 With the vote which will follow this debate ends the long and difficult process of approval of the budget of the European Union for 2001.
 That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis recourse to Article 272; they have retained the financial perspectives, despite having used the flexibility instrument.
 Let me simply say to the Council that, with regard to this party, we have not been balones without this team and intends to continue playing until we get the best result.
 We do not want the resolution Colom already included a proposal for revision of the next year, because we want to wait for the assessment of the World Bank, but we share the criticism that this way of solving the financial insufficiency in category 4 distorts the multiannual character of the major goals of European Affairs and the definition of the financial perspective.
 For this to be possible, we must establish priorities.
 Only in this way will correct the money properly and that our fellow citizens are at our disposal.
 If we estimate the supplementary budget, which hopefully will then almost 8% while in all the other areas - whether the training policy, internal policy, including research, foreign policy, the administration, the total aid to the preadhesión- experience in a growth rate of only 1.1%.
 And as the cooperation is very positive, in the East, supplementary budget already in January, we shall have the opportunity to proseguirla.
 We also want to criticise not yet regulated relations between Russia and the Baltic States.
 We are following with great interest the development of society and the Russian domestic policy.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy for Russia represents the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
 Even though the US President Putin to ensure the development of democracy in his country, he is not automatically a guarantor of a stable and democratic Russia the democratic order is not yet a reality lived in Russia.
 We should not be insidiosos on our part, but that we must build the Europe of economic cooperation.
 With regard to the Caucasus, Mr Van Orden is absolutely right.
 Anyone looking to Russia and receives impressions isolated from outside the country and Russian partners runs the risk of selectively declare this as the reality of the country which comes precisely in its image of Russia.
 In the political field, the common strategy for Russia intends to enter into a permanent dialogue on political and security and to create a permanent mechanism.
 I would like to stress the seriousness of Russia as a political union with Belarus.
 Do you intend to support this project, Commissioner Patten?
 In this respect, during the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi, as Parliament will know, launched a wide-ranging dialogue on energy.
 I am very hopeful visit Kaliningrad personally in the first part of next year and not just because Immanuel Kant spend their whole lives in that city.
 I congratulate the honourable Member once again for his excellent report on a very important issue, which in the next few years we shall refer again and again I am sure in this Parliament.
 You placed in a very difficult position.
 Mr President, I would like to say that this debate is very necessary since the BSE crisis has a huge impact on feedingstuffs, on the cultivation and import of feedingstuffs.
 The Council has expressed its concern in many meetings with Russia, at all levels, in particular to make it think again make excessive use of force and avoid a possible extension of the conflict, to carry out independent inquiries and effective on violations of human rights, to support to the OSCE assistance group in fulfilling its mission and, finally, to ensure that the transport of humanitarian aid.
 Mr President, on a point of order, it is customary in this House that the questions that cannot be answered orally adequately will respond in writing later.
 (Interruption from Mr Posselt)
 This directive is of 1992.
 In this respect we must work.
 These groups are obviously left on the sidelines of this new proposal.
 - (FR) The presidency and several Member States have already received letters from the European sugar manufacturers with regard to the Commission proposal, which will be taken into account in its deliberations.
 Question No 6 (H-0886 / 00):
 Firstly, I must say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet replied to the question from Mr Korakas.
 Now, we have to establish that authority and I believe that the European authorities are very concienciadas and that we must continue to move forward.
 More specifically, has met the representative of the Presidency, in this case the Ambassador of France in Algeria, together with Mr.
 We welcome the provisions proposed in this respect by the preparatory committee and determined by the General Assembly on the way of accreditation of non-governmental organisations, the preparatory process and the special session in September 2001.
 The cooperation includes several references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
 As underlined by the Council in your earlier answer, the process of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters will best protect the rights of individuals.
 I would like apremiarlo a little more.
 In particular, it ensures that the political control and the strategic direction of a military operation of crisis management.
 I should simply like to remind you that the Treaty provides for a system of the difference in treatment between charges and indirect taxation, in which harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market - and the approximation -artículo 93, provided for in Article 94 of the legislation that impact directly on the establishment and the functioning of the common market, among which are those relating to direct taxation.
 Let us, in a few words, these three sectors.
 While maintaining the model of behaviour that in case of doubt, all fight against all this could get the strain on the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe based on regional cooperation.
 At the end of the day, we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, in addition to cooperation on both sides.
 Mr President, our group supports the work carried out by Mr Baltas in connection with the report on the viability of the negotiation of the stabilisation and association agreements with the Republic of Croatia.
 Mr President, during the years when I was President of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to accompany many Croatians in their efforts towards freedom and prosperity which they, like other peoples of our continent, identified with its integration into the European institutions.
 On the basis of the results obtained by Croatia this year, I have to say that I hope that we will be able to achieve a rapid pace.
 That is, of course, our criterion and the speed with which we have brought our policy towards Croatia in recent months witness.
 We have the obligation to give the Croatian Government and its people any kind of aid in the coming years and we are deeply grateful for your kind wise advice in order to ensure that we continue along this path.
 In this respect it is incomprehensible that the Laskar Jihad had the opportunity to go to the Moluccas this spring with thousands of supporters to exacerbate the conflict again.
 In Timor, the militias are blocking the return of refugees and the people who provide the aid are asediadas.
 On behalf of the Committee on Industry, I will confine myself to three points.
 Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen on the excellent work he has done.
 It is not the only country in which this happens.
 Continuing violence in the Moluccas, in Aceh in Irian Jaya causes a great deal of pain to the population.
 Tomorrow, we welcome here the ceremony of the award of the Sakharov sajárov.
 According to the latest news arrivals undergo the Indonesian archipelago is also the question of whether the situation seems even more serious, yes, more precarious, for the President Wahid and serves the enemies which the rapporteur analyses.
 If we want to help Indonesia, must now act with money and facts and not just words.
 I believe that the report is extremely valuable to shed light on what has been happening.
 It is clear that the difficulties in Indonesia has not been solved overnight.
 Protection of the financial interests of the Communities.
 We must finally remove the obstacles to its independent activity, in particular in the recruitment of staff and in its structure.
 That is why the Commission must finally fulfil through a process of internal reforms your announcement that it will not tolerate the fraud and that each of them will be pursued consistently.
 I believe that this should also be exactly the consequence of Nice.
 We would like to see Member States opened negotiations with a view to having a uniform legislation in the area of criminal law, however, we do not want to put our countries to a Federal Prosecutor Community.
 I would also like to know why yesterday, was delayed until after the Danish referendum on the euro, the publication of the Commission document on this issue.
 I have tabled an amendment to citen the names of these countries, because it is time that this was done to shame.
 I am sure that OLAF has an interest in the shape of transparent selection of the tables senior managers.
 However, we in the European Parliament we must be careful not to see the mote in our eye for being so focused in seeing the speck in the emerging: the Commission.
 We are trying to put out a fire and suffocate ourselves with the smoke.
 And nobody can understand, I too.
 With a view to fully achieve this aim, I would like to highlight four questions that I consider to be fundamental in the work of the authority of budgetary control.
 The Treaty is a problem for Parliament itself.
 Commissioner, it is worrying that has explicitly to draw the Commission's attention to respect for the rights of Members as guardian of the Treaties.
 They relate to a number of guidelines for action which the Committee on Budgetary Control can continue when they encounter problems in different areas, including the recommended to the Committee on Budgets to freeze or reduce the amount of the appropriations intended for the items in question in the budget for next year; not authorise transfers of appropriations which involve the increase of the budget concerned during a certain period until we have completed internal investigations; additional to go to ask the President of the Commission to demand the resignation of any Commissioner affected by the serious problems: discovered something like a cesárea of the EU.
 The report requires us to make detailed inventories of operational activities, comprehensive controls of budget lines and irregularities internal as well as an assessment of the results on the part of the Commission.
 Commissioner, the starting point of the transmission of information to the European Parliament is not the EC Treaty and the interinstitutional agreement.
 But the result of this common position would, if not amended, which in the end not only have a level playing field with regard to America, but even within Europe.
 I do not know why it should not be achieved in the present case, as has been achieved in all the other directives, to achieve a final compromise.
 It is a proposal which has had a long, and I fear that, tormentoso way to overcome some of the difficulties.
 The first amendment relates to Article 4, which lays down what has to be the authority responsible for monitoring the supply.
 We now have a proposal which would cause trouble, court pursuit of more favourable, possible litigation at a delicate moment an agreement business.
 In the United Kingdom, the regulation of takeover bids through the voluntary code of practice administered by the group responsible for takeover bids has produced very good results: a good example here a pragmatic approach to an extremely complex issue in which legislation would be less appropriate.
 But, more than that, it is better that we can manage the Lisbon programme for the creation of a dynamic and competitive European economy.
 We in the European Parliament that we need to do is to regulate a minimum at European level the big areas which cause tensions in the procurement law, for example, presidency towards shareholders, large or small shareholders against enterprises from the capital market.
 Some of the amendments proposed by Parliament improve still further the text of the Council's common position, because it points to focus their attention on issues which could lead to difficulties in the interpretation and urgently to a more rapid transformation of the directive.
 After all, has not been proven in any way that the definition of fair price proposal is better than any other, because the different definitions used at the moment in the Member States are all very well.
 The debate is closed.
 Furthermore, it acknowledges the artist a right of information to be aware of their rights within a period of up to three years before traders professionals of art objects, what is reasonable, as they have to wear the accounts of sales and purchases.
 Consequently, we must address the legislator Austrian and attack the European legislator that not only creates positive framework conditions for artists and auction houses.
 Furthermore, the subject we are dealing with, the need for a common position is all the greater given that only a common position will enable the European Union to exert influence at international level in order to be able to defend the interests of the creators at global level.
 I trust in the wisdom of this House and vision.
 In Germany, for example, of the seven artists who transferred their rights in 1998 only 274, in fact, received any money for it and 40% of the right of "suite 'was intended to cover the costs for collecting the sum.
 In short, there is a need for harmonisation of this type in this sector.
 We had already rejected a similar amendment at first reading.
 They thought that the translations could continue despite this very tight timetable and difficult.
 However, we have now reached a point at which, unfortunately, we cannot delay this matter.
 Our committee proposes that it be brought forward a year.
 This Parliament is, of course, vote in favour of these values and will continue to be defendiéndolos.
 The technology and the development of the markets will lead to change in any case.
 There is no legal basis enabling us to exclude competition in these cases.
 A reduction in the universal services - the very essence of the postal service sector - up to 50 grammes would seriously endanger the capacity of the national postal servants to provide a universal service at an affordable to all tariff regardless of where they reside.
 I would remind my Conservative colleagues the mess in which ran into the United Kingdom when they tried to privatise the British Post Office.
 We have turned the safety net for users of postal services in a hamaca where large companies tumban post to continue as they have always done.
 I am very pleased that this notion of special services intended to put new technologies outside the scope of universal service is moving towards the reserved sector the weight limit of 50 grs. proposed 150 grs.
 We cannot tolerate, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, and that we will not see a similar situation.
 For this reason, the European Commission has not proposed the total liberalisation of the postal services in the second phase.
 This is something that I wish to the other European countries.
 In the Dutch newspapers, Mr Bolkestein recently rejected for the French anti-liberal its position, or at least this was the headline in a newspaper.
 In this sense, I could say something that Spain has created this fund and has been the same, and this is to speak of the random legal bases, which shows the depth of the virtual criteria in terms of its composition and the guarantees of its discretionary implementation.
 And I hope that, tomorrow, we vote in favour of the amendment by Mr Atkins or by Mr Sterckx because otherwise I shall be forced to vote against this report.
 Royal Mail is in competition and spread the letters I met in Sweden.
 Madam President, Commissioner, what has taught us the debate, or rather the controversy sparked by Commissioner Bolkestein in its quest for a liberalisation of postal services in the absence of any assessment of the first stage and violating the rules laid down by this directive - using progressive terms and value, such as modernisation, liberalisation measures, technological development, it goes into a social decline in the quality of a country.
 The protection of universal services provided by a compensation fund which would use private profits for some services cannot be permanent.
 These limits and delays have contributed to a debate in which were often confuse the ends with the instruments.
 Madam President, when dealing with this subject we are talking about economic and social cohesion.
 Madam President, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, because, of course, has done a difficult, complicated, where he had to try to find a balance between positions and proposals, points of departure and arrival completely different.
 I fear that the effect will be that the current monopoly can further strengthen its position at the expense of the taxpayers and that will rejoin the yardstick for the new candidates.
 I am also pleased to see that our liberal friends of the continent are giving an example to the British Liberal.
 I certainly accept that the concept of liberalisation per se has nothing wrong and which could be beneficial to consumers.
 Justified, since it is included in the logic of the founding Treaties of the European Union, which put the completion of the internal market for the free movement of goods and services in an environment of competition.
 The universal service is the cornerstone of the Community policy in this area and all we do is designed to create the right conditions for improvement.
 The special services are one of the areas of great importance must be promoted in the innovation and modernisation.
 He said that the opening up to competition of practically all of the postal market seems inevitable before the end of the decade.
 I am in favour of any solid guarantees that always protected the universal service obligations.
 That is why we cannot remain silent and am ready not silent while the future of the sector is threatened by the inability of properly overcome the challenges we all marked in Lisbon.
 Thank you very much, Mr Simpson.
 However, I would remind you that this common organisation of the markets is the main aim of the guarantee of access to the Community market for their products.
 It is absolutely necessary to find, over and above the tariff preference of EUR 300, a means to enable effective access to the quota C and subsequent way of assessing the impact of the system in these producers.
 For example, we cannot fail to express our concern about the plataneras production in certain countries in the ACP countries, small producers in the West Indies and in some countries in West Africa have been traditional suppliers in the banana market with which we have commitments and we must not forget that.
 Therefore, I ask that this report will be supported in its entirety by the Members of this House, as it was in the Committee on Agriculture.
 While the United States first condemn the reference periods, historic and now defend their own historical reference periods.
 Powerful interests involved, especially those of the Americans, who are not direct banana growers, but who have invested capital in American business.
 Sometimes, it seems as if the Commission, in the proposals of deregulation in the trade and agricultural production at international level, were even further than the Cairns Group.
 It is a pity that the Commission and the Council continue in a solution that can seriously compromising this production, in particular after 2006.
 The successive opinions of the WTO does not say that we will not give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers.
 Thus, the transitional period should be almost never below ten and fifteen years and the compensatory aid must include the guarantee of the incomes of Community producers and the departure of the production of the outermost regions, which is why we must also include a marketing aid agencies to bananas produced there.
 I hope that we will listen to our arguments, because this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, albeit EUR 300, may prove to be rather pointless at the facts as ACP producers will be laminados system for the so-called "by order of arrival".
 Votes
 (Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
 The Commission cannot accept the remaining amendments.
 Before the vote:
 (Parliament adopted the oral amendment)
 Report (A5-0376 / 2000) by Mrs Morgan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the reform of the institutions and procedures of budgetary control (2000 / 2008 (INI))
 The majority of smokers are not familiar with all the risks or bear all the costs of their choice.
 Already during the 35 years of my life long parliamentary I have always stuck to this rule.
 I fear that their hopes will be in vain.
 This is our last desperate attempt to put on the packets labels and images which reflect the real cost of tobacco consumption.
 Lehne report (A5-0368 / 2000)
 I believe that this trial is still correct and relevant and, consequently, I have voted against the report in its entirety.
 With good criterion, the Committee on Legal Affairs insists in refusing to a ceiling and a minimum percentage less than 7%.
 By voting against this directive, my group wishes to table a warning for policy that we pursue in Europe not to create unnecessary rules.
 If it is right to denounce the dictatorship of Stalin of decades ago, how can we give a minimum confidence in Mr Putin executioner, of the Chechen people, padrino of the various mafias, which insists on doing away with all kinds of opposition, civil society, trade unions) (parties, in order to reinforce his personal power?
 Indonesia should not true that this intensification of relations, because that in recent years the rulers of this country has not been distinguished precisely neither by a great democracy or by large merits; however, we must concern ourselves with the Indonesian citizens and for this reason, are welcome the intensification of relations and this aid.
 The unit should deal only with the crimes committed by the EU employees.
 The Theato report on the fight against fraud to discover that the European Central Bank, without doubt prove better famous for its independence, not seen fit in addition to the agreement on the Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
 That concludes the explanations of vote.
 Or belong to a club or do not belong, and it is particularly important that we recognise this principle.
 Ladies and gentlemen, we do not contribute to the change of name.
 The exclusively tariff-based regime is, however, an important element, which guarantees the balance of the Commission proposal and is an important basis for being able to achieve some progress in the Council.
 The national and regional programmes for the promotion of rural development also include support measures for the marketing of these bananas.
 Europe and the United States are working in close cooperation in defence of the values we share.
 We are going to talk about a possible new WTO round, as well as on the consequences for this round the wide range of new bilateral trade initiatives that are being discussed in the American hemisphere.
 As you rightly said, transatlantic relations have increased dramatically in the last ten years - above all, it is true, on the part of the United States, thanks to President Clinton, but I think that history will note that these new relations has also contributed Europe, which has played a key role in its development, through the 1990 transatlantic declaration and through the new transatlantic agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995.
 In short, it will be important to achieve a change of direction and to draw up a genuine transatlantic agenda for the year 2001.
 To conclude, I will refer to the Dominican Republic, which says that it was assumed that the WTO should become an impartial arbiter of common rules, in which countries could learn to act according to the rules.
 Secondly, although we can be happy about the decline of the Communist sham, the collapse of the Soviet Union left one superpower, the United States of America.
 I know that the Commissioner has a very good and constructive dialogue with Parliament and the committees which have some connection with these issues.
 The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
 These objectives, the primary and secondary, will be the litmus test with which they have to judge the specific proposals put forward by the Commission.
 It is well known that a solution -instalación in one country with the possibility of providing services throughout the Union - could make an avalanche in those countries with lower taxation.
 So, in 1992 was achieved an agreement, then as a minimum harmonisation, according to which the normal rate of VAT could not be below 15% and the Member States had the power to implement a more or less than 5% rates do not, in this case with derogations laid down.
 We have asked the European Commission to ensure that there are no distortions of the market and that this report on the results to the Council and to Parliament.
 In short, the aim of this proposal is correct, but the method is unreasonable and if we really want to promote the e-economy in Europe, a proper signal would set a zero rate of VAT for our companies that operate via the Internet, instead try to impose our problems to the other.
 In order to be able to fulfil the requirements of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, we will need to adopt all kinds of measures to restrict it.
 The only case in which up until now have not been collects no tax is the benefits that have been carried out in the European Union from a third country.
 Positive discrimination of air transport has to stop.
 Companies in other countries outside the Community, not pay taxes.
 Compactos records are not so archaic and it would be necessary to impose a tax, while the programmes which are circulating on the Internet would fall outside the imposition of a rate.
 However, the solution proposed is bound to be technically unworkable and create restrictions to the promotion of transactions on the Internet in the Union, precisely when all anticipate its expansion.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax systems of the Union are losing garra and capacity of revenue.
 We should be seeking ways to promote electronic commerce and not devise new forms of gravarlo.
 We Liberals say that it is necessary to state the lowest possible.
 The Primarolo group has drawn up a simple rules which must be applied.
 As objection, the group that I represent in this House believes that we should address the fact that, while the newspapers have usually reduced rates of VAT, this reduction is not applicable to the newspapers electronically.
 The taxation of kerosene is only possible to introduce, therefore, by means of an international consensus that will guarantee equality of competition.
 I particularly welcome the fact that the report strengthens one of the key arguments presented in my report on behalf of the Committee on Transport, which was put to the vote in this Parliament a few months ago, namely that, given that it is certainly politically difficult to reach an international agreement on the taxation of aviation, at least in the short term, we should look for alternatives tools to achieve the same effect, including a rate for emissions.
 In reality, the industry pays 100% of their infrastructure costs through charges air traffic control and airport in 1998, which were raised to a total of USD 4 billion; unlike other modes of transport, such as rail and road, which are still heavily subsidised.
 The current situation is not favourable.
 In this context it has to be said, unfortunately, that emissions from air traffic are a problem which, although not porcentualmente is too large, much is increasing and, therefore, we should not desdeñarlo.
 The action plan will be detrimental to the development of SMEs, both inside and outside the Union, especially in view of the proposal to reduce the threshold of derogation to the low level prohibitivamente turnover of 40 000 per annum.
 If we are too greedy to tackle the issue before us, we are putting at risk the future of the really important electronic commerce in Europe.
 The point of departure that suppliers outside the Community supply to customers within the Community should only be registered in a place cannot involve a shift from tax revenue between Member States.
 Bearing in mind that the debate within the Council still continues and the desire of the Commission to settle the issue of VAT properly and e-commerce in the short term, I think that the best thing at the moment is not formally accept Parliament's amendments, but to make them a reality as far as possible through the negotiations within the Council.
 For this reason, I cannot accept the proposed amendments.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner, for all the files to which you referred this week.
 For its part, only three months after the accident, the Commission took their responsibilities and adopted a first package of measures, which the European Parliament fully endorsed the past 30 November.
 In fact, with more than fifteen directives or regulations in force, there is an urgent need to standardise everything practices and to exercise more control over the implementation of Community rules, in order to avoid significant differences and unacceptable in the field of maritime safety that may occur within the Union.
 Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuous commitment in the field of maritime safety.
 I would like to remind you that in air safety compensation that apply in the European area and in the field of American, not the same amounts that are equivalent to those for other countries.
 Secondly, I would say to the honourable Member that he might have the capacity to confiscate freeze or a company specific funds for compensating damage or some other, is the French justice, which could establish responsibilities beyond the according to objective criteria that addresses the current international regulations on pollution by hydrocarbons.
 The Commission considers that these provisions are going in the right direction towards the establishment of charging systems also incentivan a fairer, more rational and efficient use of the road network.
 Following the criticisms received, particularly in Ireland and France, have now changed the extent and the British Minister of Finance has given a different turn: now is presented as a right of use for rate for all, including the British lorry drivers.
 I am committed to ensure that the food that are available to consumers, whether they come from inside or outside the European Union, meet the highest standards.
 I naturally understand the concern of the honourable Member.
 I am sorry to say, Commissioner, that I am not interested in your reply.
 The question raised by the honourable Member is important.
 In Nigeria, Chevron has been accused by the indigenous population of all-ijaw instigate violence against them and even pay the Nigerian soldiers to disparen against the demonstrators at the naval base in warri.
 (EN) in his report, which was adopted on 15 November, the Commission came to the conclusion that the aid to the exploitation under Regulation 1540 / 98 have not allowed us to solve the problem of the policies of surcoreanas prices.
 I believe that the whole of intentions is very reassuring, but the reality is that in the meantime our shipyards are closing.
 Question No 38 by (H-0868 / 00):
 Commissioner, I understand who does not want to change its decision in spite of the fact that ten Member States are opposed to this tariff.
 This initiative is based on a Council regulation amending the regulation which defines the egp.
 I represent some producers and therefore feel a deep concern.
 We are working on this in the committee, we have not taken this week to be Poul Nielson absent for a trip to the Balkans.
 We are working on the safeguard clause and if Mr Clegg needs to speak with his arguments, the beet growers have at its disposal.
 I would like to thank Mr Liikanen for his very positive and brilliant response.
 I shall deal with this matter with my services, once we know the budgetary resources available for the next financial year.
 At the moment, the efforts of my services and my own personal focus in limiting the distance between the parties and the future Court.
 In the same way that the courts in Düsseldorf, Munich and other German cities have specialised in patent law, and there are also specialised courts in London, a Community court meets and evaluating cases relating to the Community patent should be very specialised.
 To prevent this situation interim acquires a permanent, on 13 July 1999, on 13 July last year, the Commission stated in a letter to the respective Member States of their obligation to appoint courts for Community trademarks.
 As the honourable Member is well aware of your House, the presentation of a complaint by itself does not affect the progress of the project.
 Question No 47 by (H-0877 / 00):
 This therefore means that the Commission only legal measures will make use of the resources, as stated in the Rules of Procedure.
 The question is where must address these students continue to understand that when this cycle of studies and what are to culminate in Britain are entitled to obtain results.
 The King could be elected for a certain period of time between the Finnish Members of the European Parliament more worthy.
 It could also be seen as an issue which affects competition, because it can continue without selling taxes in the southern part of the Baltic, the route between Stockholm and Helsinki, therefore, that this will not be possible in the route between Umeå and Vaasa.
 What we must do is to correct this situation through the promotion of multilingual content, because they are a prerequisite for the success of the content industry in Europe.
 The problem which concerns me most is that small businesses do not always have sufficient guarantees and a path that trade contrastada offer the investor.
 To bring to fruition the development of European e-contenidos ambitious programme is necessary to simplify and consolidate from the point of view of safety procedures involved.
 That is why the objective of the public support measures designed to promote the content industry of the EU must also be the achievement of a high level of culture and the diversification of the same.
 On the other hand, are the communication networks, which require the content to fill their virtual endlessly area, and consider that obvious the subordination of the content, their purchase, its use without special attention to the rules of production.
 Mr President, I very much welcome the programme to the European digital content and I should like to highlight two points.
 This is why I support the amendments calling for the adoption of specific actions in the field of new technologies.
 First, on the social and cultural function of digital content, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament stresses the social and cultural dimension of digital content.
 The assessment and management of environmental noise
 Indeed, I am grateful for the support that the Christian Democrats and also, incidentally, a part of the Liberal Group, have given to this particular amendment to limit noise from aircraft.
 This year alone, six years later than the dates mentioned above, and under strong pressure from the French Government, the Commission has submitted a proposal to establish harmonised noise indicators.
 This proposal is, in fact, quite moderate, if we bear in mind that the Scandinavian countries already have stricter standards than those proposed for the year 2012.
 Orly Schiphol, Barcelona, and other airports already comply with strict measures.
 Another important point which we propose that it be incorporated into and which will be essential in the context of the problems of aircraft noise is the definition of other additional noise indicators, in addition to those that the rapporteur has pointed out.
 Because of the lack of common standards in the European Union, we have seen situations of glaring distortion of competition between airports and lack of fairness between the citizens of the various Member States.
 That is why the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange seem to me to be very important.
 Mr President, first of all, I must say that I welcome this report.
 This was basically the purpose of Amendment No 36, although I believe that the idea is not yet fully developed.
 We should take a close look at this aspect in both areas and then take a combined approach on the one hand, establishing limit values for the various sources of noise emissions and, on the other hand, quality standards for emissions.
 We need more time and I regret that we have not had, although in general terms, I support the framework directive.
 Once the Member States have comparable information provided, the Commission will examine the issue of introducing limit values and other Community measures to reduce the number of people who are affected by the noise, and will present a report to the Council and to Parliament.
 Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
 These are the three criteria.
 Thank you, Mr Seguro, I sympathise with you, because, if you have the throats as a estropajo, I have to say, as a bayeta as North Rhine; the fact is that it seems that the influenza is hanging over here.
 If the problems of diet are, moreover, chronic increases the risk of cancer.
 Then, also, it transpired that the Commission did not have the necessary instruments to act properly.
 Tomorrow we have another stage in the programme. I then turn will come to our colleague Marit Paulsen, of the Liberal Group, who will take the opportunity to introduce even more the directive before us.
 The Commission and the Member States now have a better instrument to ensure the effective implementation of Community legislation on feed and, in the event of emergencies arise in third countries, to be able to take measures without delay.
 We know that the majority of Europeans live in cities, and until now, these issues have been embryonic stage in regard to the cities.
 The planning process must be applied fairly and innovative.
 The multiannual programme 2000-2004 for sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for this purpose, as well as the implementation of Agenda 21 is an excellent way of coordination and development actions.
 To ensure that the threat of climate change is necessary to reduce the transport and abandoning fossil fuels at local level.
 There have been many who have suggested that the budget is too small.
 The intention is that the main partners in this context is the Commission and networks of local authorities, which have the legal responsibility to develop and implement policies of sustainable development in the urban environment.
 The Court of Justice of the European Communities and even the settlement of disputes bodies of the WTO sometimes feel that the precautionary principle to be applied in the environmental field and in the field of public health, and even sometimes against Europeans, as evidenced by the outstanding issue of cheese manufactured with the fresh milk.
 The aim must not be to the restriction or compensation of damage, but the primary goal must be to prevent damage to the health of goods or against the people.
 In 1996, the European Parliament came out in favour of a ban on the use of animal meal throughout the European Union, in accordance with the principle of caution; but only on that.
 There has never been and never will be, an absolute scientific certainty on new substances or on new products.
 Finally, if the application of the precautionary principle is to be effective and credible, it is essential for the participation of all interested parties, including the representatives of civil society, in political decision-making surrounding its implementation.
 And, finally, that the public health and the environment must take precedence over other considerations, particularly economic.
 An essential condition for the application of the precautionary principle is that the concern about the possible harmful effects will provide a scientific basis.
 Yesterday, in Lisbon, at first hand, an American professor George, Carlo, whom the Food and Drugs Administration has entrusted in the last seven years a study on the impact of radiation in the health, revealed that there is a risk that the use of mobile portable strengthens the emergence of tumours and injuries, Alzheimer's disease in the skin.
 Mr President, the environment and public health are complicated as a machine with a lot of monitoring and control functions to be able to intervene and thus not ruin it.
 The implementation of this principle must be avoided at all costs stifle innovation and economic activity, generate pusillanimity and industrial immovability, become a means to deter competition.
 As Parliament will have noted, the Commission's position is in line with the majority of the issues raised in your motion for a resolution.
 The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
 Article 2 enshrines the right to life and on every occasion that in Spain the terrorism kills one person, the whole Union is affected in what is one of its most fundamental principles.
 We do not want to replace the institutions urgirlas legitimately established, but to protect our rights and our freedoms without concessions to terror.
 Votes
 Furthermore, the Council reiterated the point on the classification of budget lines on the draft retirement of the Commission and on the administrative costs of the fisheries agreements.
 (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
 That is to say, it is no longer present.
 The 23.428 permits obtained will seem few, but on the other hand will be glad to be offered area so that they can grow.
 The consequence of that abolition, which has started to be applied in the middle of last year, it was, as anticipated, an interruption of the dramatic pace of adoption and implementation of projects of payments, with what the annual implementation of this Fund authorisations, at the end of June 2000, fell by one percentage point.
 The text is an ideal carte blanche for closure in practice of the General Secretariat of the European Parliament in Luxembourg.
 Before my trip, they said to me: "it is Christmas in Bergamo, and we welcome the Christmas and St Lucia will the too.
 In addition, we oppose the overproduction of agricultural products and the use of resources for the information to sell.
 Mr President, I voted in favour of the García-Margallo y Marfil report on the taxation of electronic commerce.
 Mr President, I will try enmendarme before the year 2004 with an explanation of vote in favour of Malta.
 However, I say this with some solemnity: that is as far as we can accept, in my view, a Europe that is too liberal!
 The existence of a deadline incentivaría the postal sector to develop and to modernise their services, while at the same time it would facilitate the planning and investment in the markets.
 Exercising pressure will consolidate its position to the money earned by the distribution of shipments of more than 150 grammes.
 The liberalisation of postal services, as was proposed by the Commission, is not adequate and coherent, which is why I voted in favour of the report and all the amendments that were heading in the same direction.
 De Roo report (A5-0378 / 2000)
 We also have reservations about Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, we remain convinced that are compatible with the WTO.
 The Commission proposal is unacceptable as it stands, because it represents a capitulation to the American dictatorship! capitulation this is unworthy of our European project and the environmental and social model that we want to build!
 This goes against respect for the national identity, as stipulated in paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
 It must be pointed out that the linguistic minorities, instead of being engullidas by globalisation of the Internet, have a new opening this finding in the cultural and economic.
 Mr President, in the absence of other results, the negotiations which took place in Nice will have made clear the intentions of the protagonists of the European Union.
 In this regard, the tone of the resolution is too simplistic.
 The delay by the publication of the written conclusions - which are not yet officially available at the moment, four days rather belatedly more clearly demonstrates the difficulty of good draft decisions taken in the confusion.
 The only way to avoid dangerous conflicts in the future, is to maintain the traditional concept according to which Europe is based on mutual respect for national communities.
 The Nice Summit on Sunday ended with an agreement which should lead to a draft Treaty.
 The resolution on Nice, voted on today, does not reflect this.
 Finally, a reference to social policy, for France had committed in the presentation of his presidency, but which, in the end, it was in one hand full of very little, beyond declarations of intent and the titles of documents of content is extremely vague and clearly insufficient to the problems and the enormous dissatisfaction, of which the demonstration of workers in Nice was also important expression.
 In the really important issues such as taxation, tributos, social policy, asylum and migration, everything is as before.
 What is striking in the debate on Nice is the feeling that at the end of the Treaty is not father or mother and child of one: the French Presidency is in desdobló apologise, clearly instead of accepting the outcome of the IGC and their reasons; the political groups which correspond to the governments of the Member States multiplicaron criticism.
 On the contrary, it reduces the influence of national democracies by the restriction of the right to veto and to give more power to the European Parliament.
 If these consequences could be calculated in my year of birth, in 1944 Chicago, the conclusion of the agreement, perhaps not have agreed an exemption for the taxation of aviation fuel and other products.
 Given that zero risk does not exist, scientists, or at least, politicians must apply the criterion of proportionality, to judge the risks uncertain and assume their responsibilities.
 But this Parliament also fought for this reduction in the resources for the innovative policies were compensated using the flexibility instrument laid down in a clause of the budget estimate.
 We all have a part to play in this important area because, in the truly global market in which we find ourselves, new ideas - with adequate resources, and with a firm support and realistic - will be able to maintain our place in Europe at the forefront of technological development in new industries and communications technology in particular.
 In the previous speech were already hard words against the budgets, and that is that EUR 400 million is really the minimum funding, so in the second part of the exercise should be to take advantage of the opportunities of additional funding that offers the flexibility instrument, as pointed out in the report.
 In my opinion, to accompany this automatically, and not as the report concludes, a reduction of European added value.
 As we all know, unemployment in the European Union is concentrated in the territories economic technologically and less developed countries, particularly those of Objective 1, which is why we need the innovative actions are not only a simple technological nature, but which are inspired by an explicit willingness of economic development and employment.
 When I come back to my own region, the East of England, and I find that not a single local government has used this money in this final period, I doubt that have been effective everything that we have to be in the future to welcome these new communities.
 Mr President, my first words are to Helmut Markov to thank and congratulate him on the extremely serious, responsible and constructive presentation of the draft communication on the innovative actions of the ERDF for the period 2000-2006.
 Energy efficiency and the aspects of environmental policy have not been forgotten in these guidelines may give rise to innovative actions by way of the third issue, which concerns the regional identity and sustainable development.
 However, we wish to select projects at regional level, as, incidentally, Mr Berend has understood this well in his speech.
 The debate is closed.
 That is why we call in this report and in the three amendments that we have added to the Commission to redouble its efforts to appeal to the WTO conciliation.
 I believe that the Commissioner must show that the industry is doing everything we can in this respect to cope with this external threat to our industry.
 Finally, of course, we hope that, since 18 December, discussed at the meeting of the 6 of the OECD agreement "ships'.
 However, all the indications are that the final goal moving again and again, so that we can never achieve.
 As you all know, the simple handling of this procedure will need more than six months.
 For the large corporations, and for their lawyers, political claim less state it simply means that the state and its finances must be made available to them alone.
 But to achieve this, so that the process can consolidate the shipbuilding industry, jobs and reassure families that depend on it, it is still necessary aid beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not equal, but of disloyalty and dumping.
 The Commission encourages the improvement of competitiveness of the shipyards in the EU, but in the face of the massive cuts in the price of the Korean shipyards, increased productivity can be achieved is not enough.
 The Council stressed that support mechanism must not distort competition within the EU.
 The presence of nuclear submarine indeed broken waters in the Bay of Algeciras has become because, unfortunately, in a conflict between a diplomatic and military nuclear colonial power and a second-class Member State, according to the latest classification of Nice, which does not require their rights and doblega explanations to children.
 When, in part through the doctor who then repeated in the country in which they live or is the master, through the press británica-, it was discovered that the disease was serious, instead of change of heart I changed the rating the centre.
 And, of course, we await with interest the reply of the Commission to check whether the objective has been achieved.
 Mr President, I too should like that would be my first words of sympathy with the families of the murdered councillor and with the members of the European People's Party, and the rejection of this barbarity fascist of ETA and groups that are amparando.
 I also believe that it is important that we take the submarine Tireless in Britain for repair, as soon as possible, as soon as it is den weather conditions appropriate.
 You have asked whether the Commission considers that the Directive 89 / 618 / Euratom, on information to the population in the event of a radiological emergency, and Directive 96 / 29 / Euratom, on basic safety standards are applied to the submarine and what action has been taken as a result.
 In accordance with the usual procedure for complaints, we cannot do this public response, although we can say the broad outline of what he says.
 One aspect of the Euratom Treaty is the transport of waste contaminated between Member States; but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and all contaminated waste will go from one part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without passing by any Member State of the European Union.
 All we have to do is to win the trust of the people who live in the rock.
 However, we are seeing here is a Member State that public opinion in another Member State as would to any other country in the world, as if, in the end, there was no affectio societatis fifty years after the start of the European company statute, as if the European solidarity had not progressed in the slightest.
 It is a fact that at a given moment which the single submarine that it operated in British waters was a German submarine.
 There is now being discussed, but the citizens based on their knowledge or intuition, in its turn your attention to the European institutions.
 The lack of spending in new military equipment due to the cuts in the area of defence of the British Labour Government will, in the future, without doubt, more frequent defective episodes of military equipment that is essential to carry out repairs withdrawn.
 The competence of the Community, even if some people want something else, this does not cover the classification of ports to carry out work in repair submarines, or matters of safety of nuclear reactors and the technical requirements for a submarine be withdrawn for repair in another place.
 It would be necessary to provide yet more aid, call on the institutions to strengthen the financial, human and material resources of the ACR.
 I would ask the Commission to think again and to increase the aid to appoint the UNHCR always as a coordinator in all the contracts concluded with NGOs.
 Therefore, should be able to have access to the civilian victims and their equipment on the ground should be able to move with certainty and provide the necessary resources to fulfil its mission.
 On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who are granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which was the final objective laid down in Tampere for the common European asylum system.
 Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the work that Mrs Ogata has done for the UNHCR, and to wish Mr.
 We think it is important that we are promoting a policy for this recovery amnesty in Yugoslavia, but also mentioned that we believe it is very important that we condemn without any doubt the recurrence of the raids and terrorist activities at the borders between Serbia and Kosovo, Albania, because this is a worrying what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where there was responsibilities of Western powers.
 In paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of our compromise resolution are very clear.
 I appeal to the President Kostunica also to clarify what has happened with people like Mr Ukshin Hoti, whose fate we have discussed here on several occasions and whose fate we know nothing.
 I also endorse the call for KFOR to disrupt any act of violence in the Presevo Valley.
 I welcome the measures which it has already adopted the KFOR to tackle the problem and I am calling for restraint on all sides.
 B5-0916 / 2000 by Mr Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the PSE Group;
 This clause was agreed in the Palace of the currency in March 1990, and I know because I had the privilege to be there in the act of inauguration of President alwyn, after the referendum on bringing an end to the regime of General Pinochet.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak on the joint resolution which we will be voting in favour of course.
 It is important that the international community to exercise their democratic right of supervision, not as interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, but as political procedure, precautionary and preventive measures.
 The situation in the prisons and the police headquarters, with torture and ill-treatment, is totally unacceptable.
 This is exactly the same treatment that we in Western Europe, and to the protests, the Minister hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer to achieve a social and political consensus on the reform of the prison in Turkey.
 It is urgent, and that is why we decided to include this item on the agenda.
 It procesará 8 next January, I have reproached took part in a meeting of opponents Tunisians in France, which, furthermore, he denies.
 When militants and responsible for these associations to meet the day of the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the police and the surrounding their homes attending this meeting are hurt just on the streets of civil clothed by men.
 The second problem is, in fact, only a part of a set of harassment.
 My group, like this Parliament, is particularly sensitive to the human rights situation in Tunisia and the rest of the world.
 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, show a little restraint, please.
 Negotiations marched very well and I am pleased that these negotiations are gaining speed, which I hope it will lead to the conclusion that the honourable Member referred.
 Several honourable Members have referred to the situation of the prisoners in Turkey.
 B5-0912 / 2000 by Mr Van Hecke, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group;
 We could not, in my opinion, Mr President, Commissioner, retractarnos on this attitude.
 In this context, we saw the seizure of power by the military, which is, as always, only contributed to exacerbating the situation.
 This attitude fits in well with the continuation of the policy of French imperialism.
 The Commission is also concerned about the recent violence.
 The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
 Unfair competition aid to destroy good housing for the shipbuilding industry, to the loss of savoir-faire) (know-how and jobs in the long term and can lead to situations of monopoly, which will not benefit the world trade.
 Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
 For this reason, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the contribution they have made in the process of tabling amendments and the technical committee because a number of elements have been extremely valuable to complete the resolution.
 The adoption of the social agenda for the European Council in Nice we are particularly pleased, and we hope that the Member States will take this opportunity to encourage the development and the coordination of social security systems and care for the elderly, and encourage other measures, such as, for example, the learning throughout life, to ensure their reintegration into working life.
 The promotion of lifelong learning throughout life - something that has already been mentioned by another speaker - is another matter which I also support.
 Of course, the people of more than 60 or 70 years can do many things, but it is useful to make a mistake, their age, their income dependent on his work.
 Already, in its monthly report July 2000, the European Central Bank emitía warnings very serious in this respect.
 As far as I am concerned, the Member States can address this problem much better themselves by means of their own legislation.
 With its proposals for an active life during the age, society is gaining a whole generation.
 We must keep the promises on pensions, but pensions must be guaranteed with own resources of these countries, without the need to go to a common financial policy of the EU to fulfil its payment.
 In recent 100-150 years we have experienced the greatest social revolution, which has doubled the life expectancy of the people.
 That is what gives meaning to the extension of the mathematical life, which has enabled the medical progress.
 Cost compensation - the whole society was, therefore, afectada- elderly workers left employment, but it is not contrató young workers were removed and many jobs.
 The outcome of the family policy and tax should be rather that men and women with family responsibilities can freely decide whether they want to develop a work or not.
 My brother and I met with him there.
 Other future initiatives in the field of public health aimed at on all the issues relating to health and care for the elderly and the promotion of a healthy ageing.
 (IT) Mr President, I accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, namely that we need to amend the text and emphasises the concept of development in the face of demographic ageing population.
 It is not a question of double operations advertising or promotion of operators to each sector and the public authorities.
 Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in principle, it was also in favour of the Commission proposal.
 That is why it is very important to offer compensation and it can be very properly through advertising and promotion measures.
 I believe that in the context of the marketing and sales should be given a central place much more lifelong learning in the training programmes, since the new technologies, the management of the promotion, offer new opportunities for a modern absolutely logistics.
 First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dary for his excellent report.
 My next point concerns the issue of exports and intervention.
 We must not pay for certain products which are not demand, nor to propaganda.
 The whole world has sufficient food, so that if a product promocionamos obviously do against the consumption of another.
 Amendment No 18 and the first part of Amendment No 24, which reduce from three to two years the regularity with which will be reviewed the topics selected and products in order to improve the effectiveness of this instrument for promotion.
 As the rapporteur Jutta Haug, that is to say, as a man, and as the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, that is to say, as a woman.
 It is obvious how with small changes can achieve a great effect in practice.
 This is our temporarily last Friday in Strasbourg, namely that Strasbourg will lose twelve days of the presence of Parliament.
 Incidentally, I should like to wish a happy Christmas and a prosperous, but, above all, new century wise to everybody, but, in particular, to those who believe that it is worthwhile to be present in this House, this Friday of last year 2000 in Strasbourg.
