 The House of racial divided Europe.
 A common characteristic of the extreme right in Europe is its racism and its use of the issue of immigration as a political force.
 The Nord behind by Italy, the Vlaams Blok Holland, supporters of the National Front of Mr Le Pen in France, are examples of parties and movements trained from common aversion to the issue of immigrants and the promotion of policies simplistic to monitor them.
 Although the individuals and jorg Haidar, Jean Marie Le Pen and (never come too soon van), the question of the race not disappear from European politics at any time soon.
 The population increasingly old borders at home and more open than ever, involve a racial fragmentation in the European countries.
 The main parties of the centre left and centre right have faced the prospectus burying its head in the land, have false hopes that the problem will disappear.
 It will not, as history shows clearly the United States of America (racial).
 Racial relations in the US have been at the centre of the political debate for decades, and still are, to the point that the racial cracks are just as important as the income, if not more, as determinants preferences attitudes and policies.
 The first step to deal with the policy is to understand the racial origin and the consequences of racial animosity, even if it means develar unpleasant truths.
 That is precisely what an enormous amount of research, economic, psychological and political sociology science has done for us.
 This research shows that the people of different race much less confidence in each other; the whites are less inclined to support the expenditure on welfare because it considers that favours minorities communities; the governments have less fragmented racialmente more efficient, more and more padrinazgo corruption, crime and less productive public goods for every dollar taxes.
 This does not mean that the answer is to eliminate the heterogeneity and create communities racialmente uniform, but we need to recognise the reality of such issues to begin to build public policies for solid relations racial.
 Of course, the Americans are not agree on how to do this.
 Some encourage affirmative action programmes which give priority to minorities for the allocation of work, the admission to the College and the allocation of contracts.
 These policies are regarded as a form of offer repair by injustices and, more importantly, that of creating figures model (role models) and move beyond the residual discrimination and perhaps accident.
 Others are opposed to the affirmative action and to argue that a blind policy races, together with the policies of the free market and the values profamiliares, everything that is needed to create jobs for minorities and help to keep to the black families.
 The latter is crucial for any policy, because one of the biggest causes of poverty in the US is the spread of homes of parents entiéndase) (single mothers in the Community black.
 Irrespective of the right response, the point is to determine what to do about races is a dominant theme in the American policy.
 Of course, minorities have made progress on the path towards greater integration and economic success.
 In the 1950s blacks could not sit in front of the section buses today, two of the most important people of US foreign policy are blacks.
 Without doubt, the right of American politicians are using the "Charter racial" as a tool tactics.
 Take the case of Patrick Buchanan, and of the exasistente Nixon Reagan that became independent presidential candidate in the last elections.
 He was recently published a book which acceptance, entitled "the death of the West: how dying immigrant populations and invasion imperil our country and civilization" (the death of the West: how stocks moribund and the invasion of immigrants endanger our country) and civilisation.
 But for every book and that there are other ten represent a serious analysis of the issues racial in America.
 The analysis and discussions about the policies of racial relations are very far behind in Europe.
 What a lot of these issues are facing a little open, in terms of immigration quotas and border restrictions, not in terms of social problems and the opportunities created by a Europe which is increasingly racialmente mixed.
 Of course, there is a need for clear immigration policy to prevent the accumulation of illegal immigrants.
 But that cannot be the end: border controls with Mexico is not the end of American policy towards the racial domestic problems!
 Europe is rich and is old quickly; Europeans, generous accommodated in programmes of welfare, are no longer prepared to accept "dirty work", say, or the agriculture industry peletera.
 This means that it is impossible to avoid an increase in immigration.
 Europeans, however, are ready to criticise us for any failure in its policy on minorities and for any manifestation of racism across the Atlantic.
 When I read the European press one often sees a complex of superiority towards us as regards the issues: racial them, the Americans have problems with racism; we are immune, except for the people of neonacistas desbocados skinheads and style.
 What has happened in recent weeks, from Paris to Amsterdam, shows that the racial problem in Europe is far more profound and, as in America, it originates in the sad truth that relations of races are inherently difficult and the confidence and cooperative behaviour well not pass through the racial lines.
 If the main parties in Europe do not invest more seriously in the understanding of the racial tensions in Europe and bring the 'race' as one of its main priorities as individuals, Le Pen certainly try to fill the gap with its message of hatred.
 Against the French exceptions
 The attention of Europe today is focused, quite rightly, on enlargement and on the Constitution that the EU Member States are working.
 But the result of several galas clashes with the European Commission will not be less important to determine the fate of the new, enlarged Europe.
 France has decided to ignore, unilaterally, the pact for stability and growth, to incur a predicted deficit well above the limit of 3% of GDP.
 The French likes to proclaim the rigour of his rational thinking, but as regards deficits, gives rise to discards its obfuscation.
 France was among the main critical of Ireland when, in 2000, the Irish Government has reduced its a budget surplus, which was then 4% of GDP, in less than 0.5%.
 Other countries have violated the Stability Pact, but France is the first to do so with an open attitude of challenge presumptuous.
 None of this should sorpender anyone.
 France is simply apply the rules of the EU as their habit innate to consider its own culture as exceptional.
 For example, France consistently streak reforms to the common agricultural policy of the EU.
 As you even children, the CAP is a beautiful and completely inmerecido gift to the farmers paricularmente the French) (rich at the expense of the concern farmers in developing countries and of consumers in the EU.
 France is also trying to return to the old policies rescue, with taxpayers' money to private, profit-making companies not on the point of collapse.
 The Commissioner for competition policy of the EU, Mario Monti, cannot miss this battle: it needs the support of those who believe in the markets and in equal treatment for all.
 Here, the case is simple.
 The French Government intends to rescue Alstom, a company which developed a series of high-tech products, including the TGV, fast train the French, but that recently broke.
 The French Government maintains that never retrocederá in its plan to rescue Alstom, a plan with all the reasons dirigistes known: maintaining employment and protect the investment, etc.
 Furthermore, as Alstom is a company of high technology, the French Government is invoking the pretext of research and development, stating that are good for growth.
 Rescue Alstom through the nationalisation of the company is obviously wrong.
 The company is composed of various parties, some profitable, some bankrupt: what is obvious dividing us.
 The lucrative components, such as the TGV, find buyers easily; plants not productive had to be closed down.
 The French taxpayers' money would be better spent on temporary benefits for posted workers in subsidies to keep a plant not profitable.
 It is important that the European Commission does not allow France apply special rules on competition policy, as it seems to be doing their budget deficits.
 The Commission should be given assistance to prevent public private companies in France, as it does with subsidies of this kind in any other Member State of the EU.
 The Commission has already had some successes in this area, including those which highlights the have forced the German Government to cancel the government guarantees for the public banks.
 In particular, Alstom and France in general, must not be the exception, and we must stick to the same standards.
 If the Commission does not act, the EU would appear still further the stock of diversiones French public officials.
 France has always taken a leading role in the foreign policy of the EU, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dominique de Villepin, looks increasingly and acts as a Minister of Foreign Affairs of Europe.
 At the same time, France violates the fundamental rules of economic policy and public aid to private companies.
 Does the European Commission will lose what remains of credibility finally looks like a small arrondissement Paris?
 A defeat in the Alstom case would have severe consequences in Europe - and not only in terms of competition policy).
 The war for oil
 For decades, through republicanas administrations and democrats, America has sought a number of clear objectives of energy policy: maintaining global oil prices as stable as possible; reducing domestic consumption of hydrocarbons in the way less painful; reducing dependence on imports wherever possible; and diversify the sources of oil imported.
 Despite appearances, none of these objectives under the Bush administration has changed.
 Many observers believe that Bush has established a new direction for the invasion of Iraq is apparently against these objectives.
 A significant increase in the production of Iraqi oil probably increase dependence on the us towards the oil, in relation to other sources of energy, because the world prices of oil perhaps would fall as a response to the increase in the supply.
 This in turn would mean an increase in dependence on imported oil towards the US, particularly in the Middle East.
 However, the irony is that the US exercising better control of the Iraqi oil sector under the "oil for food" programme of the UN, in force before the war (in which this organisation, not Saddam Hussein, determined the level of the foreign sales of Iraqi oil), which will be under a democratic Iraq in the future.
 If the Bush administration had been seeking sources of oil, stable, secure diversified and cheap, simply could have lifted the embargo against Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan and to allow the oil fluyera.
 But the interests of the United States in the Iraqi oil was not driven by the economy or the energy policy.
 The Bush administration has recognised that first of all, the Iraqi oil is a resource geopolitical critical.
 Whoever controls the Iraqi oil will take control of Iraq.
 The power of Saddam radicaba in its control over the second largest reserves of oil in the world.
 The oil understood perfectly well what it meant for their power.
 Faced with the prospect of the invasion and the defeat Saddam, threatened with us down a dangerous road towards individual oil deposits of the country.
 A large part of the destruction and the plundering of the oil installations that were then reflects that everyone understands that control the means to control oil Iraq.
 When America was planning its invasion, ensure oil deposits became a priority criticism.
 The aim was not to increase the supply or reduce prices for the Americans, but depriving Saddam in their power and, in the long term, to establish a new and strong Iraqi Government.
 The future of Iraq is directly dependent upon the fate of the country's oil production.
 However, the whims of business tankers, especially in conditions so unstable, do not allow can clearly see how the Bush administration to achieve its goals in Iraq in the near future.
 The logic is simple.
 The EU must use the revenues to stop us taxpayers to finance the burden of the regime change in Iraq.
 All the projects, depend long-term reconstruction of Iraq, the ability to export large quantities of oil.
 If Iraq does not deliver oil, President Bush will not be able to fulfil its promises to the Iraqi people, the American people and to the international community.
 Before the invasion, production capacity of Iraqi oil alcanzaba the three million barrels per day.
 Iraq will not recover this level during the time needed to establish a new government.
 Any increase in production requires the development of oil deposits, which involves huge investments, and a government representative, legal and political stability.
 Even the Bush administration hopes that these conditions are met will soon.
 In fact, the main political stability is necessary to increase the production capacity.
 The historical evidence of Kuwait, Russia, Iran, Iraq, and even the same need indicate that there are around three years since the restoration of the stability policy for the capacity will increase significantly and maintain a high level.
 Iraq needs several years to draw up a new Constitution, to establish a democratic, legitimate government and negotiate the distribution of the oil revenues between their regions, implementing laws of investment and to make the economy to be attractive to foreigners.
 It also needs time to negotiate with the international oil companies and with its neighbouring countries, to carry out studies and technical feasibility, and for reconstruction, rehabilitation and explore their oil deposits.
 Thus, even a timetable for three years seems optimistic, because it assumes that, during this period, the occupation, will the Iraqi Government to establish their own democratic and political stability is achieved.
 There is no need to say that the situation can be developed in a different way.
 Tensions could continue for years.
 Furthermore, no one should be surprised if the production of oil stops completely, even under a democratic government.
 History suggests that the strikes and other similar events can interrupt the oil production are greater threat in democratic countries that those who are not.
 If Iraq does not quickly can increase its production capacity in the near future, this will be an obstacle to the foreign policy on energy and the US.
 How financed the long-term reconstruction of Iraq?
 Who will pay for maintaining a fragile Iraqi democracy?
 The US can sustain its occupation if they are not capable of providing food, health care and other basic services to the Iraqi people?
 These are difficult questions and essentially, it will not be possible to answer a stable and democratic regime in Iraq can monitor and ensure a continuous flow of oil exports.
 When the murderers care human rights
 If it were not so absolutely sad joke, would certainly be the millennium: Libya has been elected to chair the committee on human rights of the United Nations.
 When calígula appointed Senator its Trojan, at least not in the pezuñas animal had blood.
 Of course, the procedure was perfectly legal: the Presidency rotates every year in a region of the world to another.
 This year was the question of Africa to the President, and became a nominar Libya.
 Only the United States and Canada voted against.
 For its eternal shame, the European countries abstaining.
 This decision was taken a sensitive moment for the organisation is indicative of the moral bankruptcy of the UN.
 President Bush has challenged the UN to show their reliability in terms of their own decisions on Iraq; otherwise could have the same ignominious end the League of Nations, which resulted in the 1930s powerless when faced with the aggressive policies of Nazi Germany and the Fascist Italy.
 Choose to Libya to preside over the agency responsible for the UN Human Rights hardly help to strengthen the legitimacy and the moral authority of the world.
 Remember: Libya is a tyranny totalitarian; its leader, moammar kadafi erratic behaviour, combined with political extremists, and supports dictators throughout the world.
 Led by one of the most repressive regimes, where there is even simulations of elections and where dissent is crushed immediately.
 Under your government, Libya has supported terrorist organisations in the world (from the IRA to various Palestinian extremist groups).
 Still under the UN sanctions for his role in the derribamiento a flight Pan Am in Lockerbie, Scotland, ten years ago.
 Over the last decade, the position of the UN as a symbol of the ideals of a peaceful world has gradually eroding.
 It was totally incapable of stopping the war in the Balkans, in at least one case (Srebrenica), a Dutch peace force of the UN stood as a mere spectator massacre of the worst in Europe after 1945, when the Bosnian Serbs murdered around 6,000 Muslim men defenceless.
 A committee of inquiry Dutch later admitted that the Dutch blast of the UN had, in fact, complicit in this war crime.
 When the genocide in Rwanda, began, the official responsible for the UN peacekeeping operations ordered the evacuation of the forces of the country with the organisation, which left the field open to massacre genocidal the bloodiest since the Second World War.
 The name of the official is Kofi Annan.
 It is a depressing story and pathetic that the UN is trying in vain to redeem) (probably presented in the Iraq crisis as the voice of reason and the international legitimacy.
 But at a time when the UN inspections in Iraq as seem to send the Salvation Army to remove a gang of gángsters, raise Libya to the Presidency of the Commission on Human Rights could be consigned to history as the definitive failure of an organisation whose lives began with so many hopes.
 Non-governmental sulen die, and there is certainly very raison d'Etat in order to ensure that the UN continue, although it is limping along.
 But it is hardly a shadow of what should and could be.
 Today, the hypocrisy is the mark of the UN.
 The doors to authoritarian
 Last Thursday, the judges of the Court, I sentenciaron central Jakarta Indonesia to one year's imprisonment.
 As Chief Editor of the tempo newsmagazine weekly, I am guilty, according to the Court, a so-called tomy slurring banking business winata suggest possible for their participation in a fire in the textile market South-East Asia in Jakarta and promote disturbances spreading lies.
 That is my case, and other similar down, promise the end of another democratic experiment of short duration in Indonesia?
 The troubles that I fomenté supposedly occurred in March of last year, when almost 200 maleantes, who said to be supporters of winata, attacked the offices of tempo, threatened Israel with burning the building, acosaron staff and injured scores of a White Russian.
 To try to resolve the situation peacefully, assured me to negotiate the central police station in Jakarta, but I discovered, to my horror, which was in the hands of the leaders of peat.
 I am beaten and kicked while the police cerraba eyes.
 Fortunately, many journalists came to our rescue with the grabadoras and chambers debate.
 Their emissions caused protests that have forced our Parliament to organise a public hearing.
 The heads of the national police forces and Jakarta were summoned under enormous pressure, and people, leaders were accused of peat penalties.
 But winata evadió research policiaca simply saying in public that its supporters had acted without that he knew and without their consent.
 He then presented their own criminal charges against taufik Ahmad, who wrote the article, teuku iskandar Ali, who editó, and myself.
 The judicial procedure that lasted a year was dominated by a number of events suspects, all in favour of winata.
 First, the case that presented the police and the State Prosecutor contained counterfeit documents that have been so clearly the accused two police officers.
 But the Court rejected our request to delay the process so that you could clarify the legality of the case of the State.
 The case against the official involved does not seem to be moving.
 On the contrary, one of them was promoted for conducting the recently created (with funds from the US) anti-terrorist unit in Djakarta.
 The other States that was sent to the Police College for the training of staff to progress.
 Subsequently, the sixth month during the process, the President of the WTO panel composed of three judges was suddenly ascendida to head the Court of one city at a time in Djakarta.
 One of my lawyers said that in their 35 years of experience in the courts have never seen to replace a magistrate President during a trial in progress.
 In fact, despite its climb the judge, followed by another case in the same place.
 A judge who previously had ruled against tempo demand in the civil winata office.
 Finally, when winata paid their witness, committed to deny that perjurio tempo had met.
 One thing recently occurred with the recording of Telefónica interview in the Court, the White Russian made the interview and witnessed the two publishers who gave evidence juries, the official record of the telephone company was presented as evidence of the so-called perito and concluded that a voice in the study was tomy winata.
 But the judges of the tempo request refused to arrest and prosecute winata by perjurio and told us that we notice to the police, which did.
 Then the judges refused our request to postpone the decision of the Court to resolve the case of perjurio against winata.
 Given the process which is so flawed, my condemnation and my judgment is not surprising.
 But I still have hope to win in the end, when the higher courts carry the appeal lodged by tempo.
 The courts of Indonesia are cleaner while higher their hierarchy, and the President of the Supreme Court is a strong supporter of democracy and freedom of the press. The case of tempo could become a victory that marks a milestone in our democracy, as was the decision of the Supreme Court of the US in the case of the New York Times Sullivan Volkswagen works.
 The most difficult to make charges of defamation, this decision guarantees that the American journalists can make that civil servants accountable.
 No country knows better than Indonesia that freedom of expression and a free press indicators are tested democratic development and treat journalists as criminals is first a symptom of authoritarianism.
 Indonesia was a liberal democracy in the 1950s, before the President Sukarno, with the support of the military, began to suppress the press in 1956.
 With the critical voices silenciadas, consolidate a power without limit was easier and, in July of 1959 Sukarno declared the start of the "guided democracy".
 During the first years after the fall of restablecieron Sukarno in 1966, all the benefits of the genuine democracy, including the freedom of the press (except for the Communists).
 But the regime of President Suharto entered a new repression against the press at the beginning of the 1970s, and eventually banned various means and jailed many journalists.
 With the press under control, other political rights were restricted quickly and democracy in Indonesia again fail.
 Since the fall of Suharto in 1988, Indonesia has become the third largest democratic country in the world and in the most democratic community of Muslim history.
 There have been two parliamentary elections and two direct presidential elections - the final showdown presidencial-que have been open, fair and peaceful, which shows that Islam and democracy can coexist.
 However, the enemies of democracy never lie.
 Radical Islamic groups have participated in indiscriminate attacks, while groupings with strong authoritarian tendencies have penetrated the inner circle of President Megawati.
 But Mrs Megawati has just be defeated in its quest for re-election.
 Does the recently elected President susilo continue accusing journalists?
 Perhaps my condemnation and trials and other journalists, señalarán condemnations of the beginning of the end of the third democracy in Indonesia who work both cost?
 The answer is in the support that the activists in favour of democracy in the country will generate both internally and at international level.
 Indonesia potential lose a beacon of hope for all the democratic activists of the Muslim community mundial-sería a terrible defeat.
 The morality of the death penalty.
 Is often criticised the United States for refusing to abolish the death penalty.
 Many say today that the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition of civilised criminal legal system.
 The Nobel Prize Gary Becker disagrees.
 The European governments are firmly opposed to the death penalty no doubt prohibited by the European Union and completo-- some Europeans feel that their use in the United States is cruel.
 In fact, many European intellectuals argue that not only the death penalty but the punishments in general is not disuaden criminals.
 But while Europeans, with very crime rates below the Americans during the past half-century, could afford to be relatively "soft" with the majority of the crime, have seen a steep rise in their rates of crime in the last twenty years.
 On the other hand, the Americans have fallen rates, partly due to the greater use of punishments.
 This includes the death penalty.
 I support the implementation of some people convicted of murder and only porque-- because I believe that prevents other murders.
 If I believed that I am opposed to the death penalty, because revenge and other possible reasons should not be the basis of public policy.
 The serious empirical studies on capital punishment in the US began with a pioneer of Yitzhak ehrlich study published in the American economic review in 1975.
 Some further studies have found a dissuasive effect much weaker, while others have seen one much stronger.
 However, the facts are quite limited, so that there are no conclusions must be based solely on the econométricas evidence.
 Of course the public policies in relation to any punishment cannot wait until evidence is perfect.
 But even with quantitative limited the evidence available, there is reason to believe that the death penalty deterrent.
 The majority of the people, and in particular the murderers, fear the death, especially when it comes to swiftly and a considerable certainty after being committed murder.
 As Mr Hume said when we speak about the suicide, "no one rejected his life worth while the death live it.
 This is our natural death terror... "in the same way, schopenhauer thought that" in the life of the terrores reach the point where we are superior to the terrores death, a man will put an end to their lives.
 But the terrores death offer a considerable resistance... "
 Those who are opposed to the death penalty often claim that the State does not have the moral right to take the lives of anyone, including the worst murderers.
 However a conclusion that is totally wrong for anyone who believes that the death penalty deterrent.
 To see why, suppose that for every murderer executed (instead of life, sentenced to prison for example) the number of murders were reduced by three, which is a very below the figure of ehrlich and other calculations of dissuasive effect.
 This means that for every murderer not executed three would die innocent victims.
 In fact, the government would be contributing indirectly "to" remove many lives if not usara capital punishment.
 Save three innocent lives for every person executed seems to be a good compensation, and even two lives salvadas for implementation rate seems to be a convincing should to the death penalty.
 However, it is true that the arguments in favour of the death penalty are less clear as the number of lives salvadas for implementation is falling.
 But, even if it is only a salvara life for implementation, the option could remain desirable if life which was saved is much better than the life quitada generally, that would be the case.
 Many people are opposed to compare the quality of life and which was saved the lives quitada.
 However, I do not see how to prevent such a comparison.
 Consider a criminal career that kills and stealing a victim was a decent life and that leaves several a wife and children.
 Let us suppose that it is possible to save the life of an innocent victim to implement this criminal.
 To me it is obvious that to save the life of the victim must apply more than take the life of criminals.
 Obviously, not all cases are very clear, but the comparison of the qualities of the individual lives must form part of any sensible social policy.
 This helps to explain why the death penalty be used only in cases of murder and not minor offences.
 When it comes to opt for taking lives and, one might say, reduce the theft, the arguments in favour of less severe punishments are much more solid.
 Although the terrible attacks, including some severe violations, can move closer to the severity of certain murders and could justify the death penalty, I do not support their use in these cases.
 A powerful argument in favour of setting aside the death penalty for murderers deterrence is "marginal".
 If the aggression is castigaran with implementation, criminals have an incentive to kill their victims in order to prevent the descubrieran (what constitutes an important reason why the severity of the penalties must be proportional in general to the severity of the crime).
 A complication is that the death penalty can make the murderer fight with greater force to prevent his capture, which could lead to more deaths.
 But, while the marginal deterrence is important, I believe that the resistance of the murderers to be caught, possibly at the expense of their own lives, really is a test that the criminals are afraid to capital punishment.
 Of course I am concerned about the risk of executing an innocent person.
 My support for the death penalty would weaken it considerably if the rate of executions of innocent people were as high as many claim.
 I believe, however, that the appeal process in the US offers an enormous protection, not so much against condemnations wrong but against undue executions, so that there are very few cases documented, if any, of innocent people have been executed.
 This process has been strengthened and a great deal with the development of the identification based on the DNA.
 Again, the debate on the death penalty is essentially a debate about deterrence - that we can reduce with lengthy appeals).
 I understand that some people are sceptical as regards the evidence, but I think that you are mistaken both on this and on the element of common sense of the issue.
 It is distressing dropping life someone, even a murderer, but sometimes very unpleasant acts are required to prevent behaviour worse than just with the lives of innocent victims.
 The people versus Putin
 I helped to select Vladimir Putin to succeed, the Russian President Boris Yeltsin first democratically elected.
 Because the structures of the KGB and the Mafia now govern Russia and manipulated the judicial system, is supposed to Yeltsin wanted to define who would be his successor to avoid legal prosecution in the future.
 But those selecting Putin had the task of finding a person who continue reforms Yeltsin, someone who is not escudara to him and his family.
 In fact, Yeltsin had no fear and not sought their survival staff, but the idea of the democratic introduced in Russia.
 However, this idea is now under threat because the successor to chose.
 I do not deny my responsibility for having supported Putin.
 We were not close friends, but we are working together in critical situations, and always thought its sincerity.
 Putin is guided by their convictions.
 The problem is that these, including its belief that Russia can only succeed if it is governed by a power originated in one source, are wrong.
 This mistake is leading to Russia to ruin policy.
 Of course, nobody in a high office is, even some fundamental mistakes, and this is particularly true in tumultuous periods.
 Yeltsin was not an exception, but he did.
 For example, when it was on the eve of new year 1999 called apologise for having started the war in Chechnya.
 In contrast, Putin seems unable to recognise and acknowledge their mistakes, and insists on the implementation of a policy long after its failure is clear to everyone.
 One of the mistakes of Yeltsin was not put the moral priorities at the head of its reform programme.
 Russia should have regretted it Stalinism and system gulag of forced labour camps.
 The nation as a whole, without exception, have been regretted it, in the way that the Germans have done since 1945.
 This omission is important, because that allowed the unhappy Putin belief in a central authority towards the recaptura by the state security services.
 In fact, a direct result of repentance national was the gulag should have been the ban on the Communist Party and the dismissive of those who have worked on the KGB to exercise political posts.
 Although these filters politicians are a complex matter in the post-communist societies, where both the victimisation and cooperation are so preferences and the boundaries between them are so borrosos, we could have found a good solution, as in the Czech Republic.
 Doing nothing left to the security structures Russian unscathed and with the ability to make a return policy, which currently have achieved.
 The resurrection of political structures of the KGB under Putin and his efforts to silence dissent, once again have turned Russia in a country of dissidents.
 It is impossible to silence on the politicians and the independent media without strangle the independent sources of finance, and for that reason the Kremlin Putin has concentrated its attacks on the so-called "oligarchs."
 The imprisonment and trial of Mikhail Khodorkovsky were orchestrated precisely for this reason.
 To eliminate sources of finance independent, security services that dominate the Kremlin expect destroy the independent political life in Russia.
 Without foundations of independent thought is guaranteeing a climate of fear.
 But fear demean: not only creates the conditions for a bad governance.
 That would be a way of Yeltsin understood the fear and centralised decision-making and were not top-down ways of governing a modern country, and therefore insisted on reforming the relations between the citizens and the state.
 Putin still do not understand that a political system is centralised as incapable of understanding and correct mistakes now as it was in the Soviet era.
 Putin, who is not a man well educated, is leading to Russia, with a deep and sincere belief, the same disintegration that resulted from his with the collapse of the Soviet state.
 The people are beginning to realise this.
 The people see that the desire to create a modern state Putin strong and effective cannot be reality, as a modern state is governed not from the top down, but by a citizenship informed that forcing their rulers to recognise and correct its mistakes.
 Putin also seems suspect the powerlessness of his regime.
 This is one of the reasons why Russia has become so aggressive with its neighbours, Ukraine and Georgia, and seems to maintain a military presence in places like the separatist Transnistria, the region of Moldova.
 In launching its weight on their closest neighbours, the Kremlin thinks he can persuade the Russians its omnipotence.
 Given the castrado which is the debate in Russia, and the ability of the Kremlin to manipulate the elections, a change of regime is the only option for those who wish to preserve the idea of democracy in the country.
 It makes no sense to cling to pious hopes.
 Those who are opposed to Putin must decide what they want and declare that, if the regime contravened the Constitution, have the right to force it to do so, by whatever means necessary.
 At present, the question of power in Russia can no longer be decided solely at the ballot box.
 As in Ukraine, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan, will decide on the streets.
 Tax and expenditure in India
 A too can reduce the high level of tax incentives and hinder the growth.
 But too low a level can give the same result.
 Governments with tax revenue scarce cannot provide basic public services.
 Worse still, the limited tax revenue in poor countries are often the result of shortcomings in the systems of collecting taxes (more than the low rates of taxation) also promote the little productivity in companies.
 India illustrates the importance of a system of collecting taxes well designed.
 In Bangalore companies, high-tech facilities have been built international meadows well with quality care and high-speed networks.
 However, apart from these installations are open, without drenajes collecting rubbish and streets in poor state.
 While companies instantly to transmit information technology terrabytes continents remote, local transport works at a pace almost medieval.
 As a result, the companies have their own Bangalore bus services, employ private providers of drinking water and to protect installed generators of interruptions in the electricity supply.
 The state cannot fix the disaster because it is bankrupt.
 The government debt of India is of more than 70% of GDP, so that more than half of their tax revenue is devoted to the payment of interest.
 But the debt is not the result of excessive expenditure in the past.
 The Government of India is spending of around 15% of GDP compared with an average of around 40% of GDP in the OECD.
 Rather, the financial difficulties of India arise from a tax system badly designed and badly managed.
 The rates and the rules for the personal income taxes are reasonable and corporate under international criteria.
 However, the Government of India collects income taxes arriving only approximately 3.7% of GDP, more or less half of what we perceive South Korea and other Asian tigers.
 Agriculture in India represents around 25% of GDP, but even the rich farmers pay taxes.
 Companies aimed at export subsidies in the software industry and in other enjoy fiscal privileges, although their employees themselves pay taxes sobres their personal income.
 Despite the fact that the rates are reasonable, tax evasion is widespread.
 This is happening because the government has not invested in staff or systems for detecting the evasores prosecutors rarely, who are in prison and often can take bribes to bind when they are out of the catch.
 A more subtle, tax evasion of "" direct taxes on income and profits reflects the chaos in the system of indirect taxes "" on the production and consumption.
 The tax on consumption represents more than 60% of indirect taxation of India, which in turn is the same proportion of their total tax revenue.
 The basic tax consumption is set to 16% of the value of the production of a company.
 Then there are a number of concessions, exemptions and recargos.
 For example, applies a "rights dealers' rate of 8% to areas such as foodstuffs, the cerillos, the hilados cotton and computers.
 In addition, it applies a "special tax consumption") (IEC of 8% for products which contain the strands of poliéster, cars, acondicionadores air and tyres.
 Also applies a "additional" (iac consumption tax, not to confuse with the IEC) "products" special importance.
 The exemptions from tax on consumption are numerous and complex, and include companies with total annual income of less than 10 million rupias and businesses located in regions that are lagging behind or conflict.
 On the whole, exemptions fall into categories, 70 subdivididas 259 items, 52 and conditions in each of the seven lists, which contains a number of articles.
 The exemptions call to abuse.
 By a sum of money, we can convince the low level of officials, who have considerable discretion to implement the conditions that make interpretations favourable.
 The goods with high rates (for example, the best polished) sold as goods with lower rates (for example, as part pulir without).
 The tax evasion of consumption that is more contagious evasion of taxes on income and the profits.
 If a company evade taxes on consumption and the tax rate is high in comparison with the profit margins of taxes before its industry, its competitors also have to do that, simply in order to survive.
 As the evasion increases, the governments are making rights "additional" or "special" which generate more evasion.
 The collection of direct taxes is also affected.
 That is paid to the recaudador bribery of excise duty, the difference between the value of small and pulir without polished reports on revenue and inaccurate create real money "black 'that we can observe in the declarations of taxes.
 In addition to affect the ability of the state to provide basic public services in order to evade the tricks, indirect taxes also provide companies to adopt technologies more productive, requiring methods with large-scale operations.
 But because it is easier to evade the indirect taxes several small units operating in place of a large, economies of scale cannot be created.
 Would stress that in the software industry, where all units are exempt from indirect taxes, the Indian companies operate on a scale efficient.
 India could follow the example of China, where the rationalisation of indirect taxation in 1994 created the conditions for a great boom?
 Or does the coalition governments of a vigorous democracy are not able to make such reform?
 Last year, the Government of India, headed by the BJP, adopted legislation that ordered severe cuts in the budget deficit.
 Appointed a special group to make the necessary changes in policies of taxation and expenditure.
 In July of this year, the group proposed increasing taxes (instead of spending cuts) by, among other things, the elimination of the majority of the exemptions of indirect taxation.
 The new Government of India, headed by the Congress Party also seems to be in favour of these proposals.
 If the party congress and formalise the opposition parties, this will be a great step forward in order to maintain the economic growth of the country and to dispel the notion that democracies can do what is needed to promote development.
 What is wrong with Turkey?
 On 16 December Orhan Pamuk, one of the most famous writers of Turkey, be submitted before a court in Istanbul to deal with the accusation of "insulting the national identity" having shown in favour of an open debate on the Turkish genocide of 1.5 million Armenians in 1915 and following.
 Pamuk can face a judgment of three years in prison.
 Turkey 's attitude of fine and send prison who do not follow the official line confirms my opposition to open negotiations on its accession as a Member of the European Union.
 In December 1999, the European Council gave the status of Turkey to the EU miembro-candidato, involving that would accede to the Union and not at a future date specified.
 Subsequently, the Council asked the European Commission to decide to October 2004 if Turkey were adequately met the political criteria - including democracy, the rule of law and respect for the rights of minorities éticas- for membership.
 This decision was one of the last of the Commission under Romano Prodi, of which I was a Member.
 Of its 29, 30 Members said that Turkey had satisfied the criteria is enough to make progress in the process.
 I was the only one to dissent.
 The report itself prepared by the Commission on Turkey, Günter Verheugen, who at the time was in charge of the enlargement of the EU, shape my decision.
 The document mentioned that in 2003 near 21.870 submitted applications for asylum in the EU, which 2.127 were accepted.
 In other words, the governments themselves recognised in the EU in 2003 that the Turkish government had pursued over 2,000 of its citizens.
 In the meantime, the Commission published a progress report on Turkey, which stated that the reforms were ongoing, although to a lesser pace government, under the guidance of the moderate Islamic Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
 However, the report also raised serious aprensiones: were ongoing violations of human rights, including torture; the influence of the military remained too high; freedom of expression was not universally; non-Muslim religious minorities and cultural discrimination suffered; and there was a clear and definite opposition on the part of the power to violence against women.
 There have been many changes since the start of the talks on membership in the EU, carried out in October.
 Beyond the current persecution to Pamuk abound, unacceptable behaviour.
 In March 2005, the dispersó police violently a demonstration which was International Women's Day.
 In May, the largest trade union of teachers was banned in promoting the education of the 14 million Kurds in Turkey in their own language.
 In fact, intolerance goes to the top of the Turkish Government.
 The Foreign Minister, Abdullah Gül, abruptly cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen was when a journalist Kurdish between the public and the Democrats refused to expel him.
 These actions and attitudes amply justify my disagreement in October 2004.
 However, even if they were not overcome, Turkey should be accepted into the EU, because this is not a European country.
 Christianity, feudalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, democracy and industrialisation have become what we as Europeans, but have not made the Turks in what they are.
 So I am not convinced that the reforms implemented in Turkey for the insistence of the European Commission should continue after the country finally enters the EU.
 Indeed, I suspect that there will be a step backwards.
 Moreover, the admission of Turkey would lead inevitably to Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, and perhaps of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
 Certainly, the first three of these countries are more European than Turkey.
 Leaving aside the three Caucasian Republics, but including the States which previously were Yugoslavia, the EU would be around 35 States.
 What kind of European Union that would be?
 The EU is not simply a club of friends.
 It is based on the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people.
 The Commission, as guardian of the Treaties of the European Union, must protect these four freedoms, which means that sometimes must persuade and, if necessary, to compel the Member States to change their legislation.
 The policy of Sweden, the law on alcohol Volkswagen in Germany and the discrimination against the funds for investment in France are examples of cases that have become unpopular in the Commission.
 But were necessary.
 For the Commission, when I was in front of me a fajo of 500 of these causes for infringement.
 In short, a Member of the EU means having to take measures that would punzantes deeply the internal affairs of a state.
 That would be impossible to do with States so different.
 The EU is to become the victim of what the historian Paul Kennedy called "sobreextensión imperial."
 It would dilute beyond what is acceptable.
 That is why the former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing feared that their income ended producing a breakdown in the EU and the German Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt stated that "the accession of Turkey will be more than the EU could bear."
 However, the stronger reason for opposing the accession of Turkey is a matter of democracy: the majority of the population in the EU simply do not want it.
 The crisis in Bolivia, a failure of Latin America
 Where we look, Bolivia is not a typical Latin American country.
 After Haiti, is the second nation's poorest Western hemisphere, and is even less stable, with a marked by history over two hundred coups since independence.
 In a region with a strong indigenous past and present, but with a desarticulado isolated, Bolivia, together with Guatemala, perhaps the only Latin American country where indigenous peoples constitute the majority of the population.
 Its topografía ethnic and distribution are generally autonomous, and even act as separatist forces that threaten the well-known national unity in more ways than in any other country.
 And, of course, together with Paraguay is the only nation without access to the sea in the subcontinent.
 So it would be very unwise to extrapolate the current crisis Bolivian the rest of Latin America.
 It is far too simplistic to generalise the institutions: in all the other countries are much more solid, poverty (particularly extreme poverty) is decreasing and, to a large extent, the battle for natural resources has been resolved.
 Even in countries such as Venezuela, with vast reserves of oil and a government of mentality traditionally nationalist, the status quo which allows for investment in the energy resources has survived almost eight years of Hugo Chávez Government of President.
 Although the existence of indigenous movement is a reality in many countries, the Chiapas to araucanía "and" of the Amazon to ayacucho, no country in Latin America has represented a real threat to national integrity.
 So the of Bolivia is not a crisis that may herald others in the region, the "or" tired domino theory, sustained by Lyndon Johnson as Che Guevara in case the Bolivian valid or even medium-sized, it seems reasonable.
 However, the current crisis in this country is a sign of a 'democratic deficit', which suffers from Latin America at the moment.
 The elected leaders have failed, for one reason or another, in Bolivia, Ecuador and in Haiti.
 Democracy is absent or incomplete in countries such as Cuba, Mexico and Nicaragua is threatened, and for one reason or another in Venezuela and Colombia.
 None of these cases is identical to the other, as they include varying levels of risk, damage or reconciliation.
 The question is what can be done about this situation, which contrasts markedly with the encouraging prospects that prevailed for just a few years ago.
 At the last meeting of the Organisation of American States in Fort lauderdale, Florida, America took a good idea that others had had the support and, basically, put an end to it.
 History began a couple of years ago, when the former Minister of caputo Dante Argentine external relations and the United Nations programme for development were in charge of drafting the report on democracy in Latin America.
 Came to the conclusion that a system of early warning about crisis of democracy in the region would help to bring actions before that things were to be out of control, as is the case today in Bolivia.
 Caputo and the UN team won then the Chilean President Ricardo Lagos to take the initiative and promote between a number of your colleagues.
 It did, but this was not very far.
 In fact, the UNDP report on democracy in Latin America, published in 2004, it hardly mentioned.
 The USA and the new Secretary-General of the OAS, the Chilean José insulza Miguel, resucitaron plan during the meeting of the OAS in Florida, but it was rejected due to the American reasonable fears that the idea was directed against Venezuela, combined with the anachronistic misgivings of Latin American countries that are not violated the sacrosanct principle of the intervention.
 Despite the fact that the continent could not reach agreement on the principle underlying the proposal, the idea of an early warning system deserves attention.
 At the moment, it may be that the Community hemisférica little can be done with regard to what is happening in Bolivia, but the situation is fraught with political pitfalls of risks for all.
 Evo Morales, the leader of the opposition and growers of coca leaf, can be a democratic leader honest, although disoriented, but what are his followers of authoritarian wishes?
 It may be that funding is not Hugo Chávez moral and the other dissidents Bolivians, but what really Venezuela and Cuba are not the temptation to meddle in the country where the Che Guevara died trying to generate a guerrilla war almost 40 years?
 The business community in the region of Bolivian Santa Cruz may not make its threat of separated from the country, but what preferirán share its reserves of oil and gas with the indigenous people of the altiplano, instead of doing this with manufacturers of Brazilian são Paulo?
 Before we reach these extreme events, it could be a good idea which the OAS (USA) is not involucrara.
 The region still needs such participation, with a compromise, with appropriate message and based on a proper democratic platform, which distinguishes it from the traditional American intervention of the traditional indifference Latin America.
 Does the deterioration in France?
 The French are extremely sensitive (not say surrounding the defensive) with regard to the size of their country in the world.
 The French State spends enormous sums of money in the spread of language and culture, however, the French are painfully aware that the overall position of their country is not what it once was.
 It is not surprising, then, that during the last presidential elections, the publication of a report by the European Commission, which claimed that economic France had from the third to the tenth point between European countries in the space of ten years, has provoked examinations of conscience and controversies. Shortly afterwards, President Jacques Chirac indicted his rival, Lionel Jospin, lead to a deterioration of "France".
 The OECD and Eurostat, the European body responsible for this type of data, thought that had finished with this aspect of the controversy to demonstrate that France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain have approximately the same standards of living per capita.
 But the more general debate not subsided.
 Again appeared on the terms "the deterioration French" during this year of the street protests against the reform of the pension system, the growing disputes on fiscal policy with the European Commission and riots with the United States on the war in Iraq.
 Currently, the Green better sold in France is a labour dispute, the France of nicolas baverez qui tombe (France) which falls.
 The book is full of baverez quotes from de Gaulle and Napoleon.
 In accordance with the author, recent major achievements of France were in the 1970s, with the launch of the fast train, the TGV, and the Airbus.
 Attacked both Mitterrand and Chirac for their "shared talent to win elections and a failure to make France".
 The success of the Green Paper is itself symptom of a kind of 'concern'.
 But, of what kind?
 The evidence of degradation that presents baverez are not as convincing as he thinks.
 For example, points to the loss of industrial jobs as the litmus test of the deterioration of France.
 However, the de-industrialisation is common to all the advanced countries.
 In fact, France is better than the majority of their rivals rich and, unlike in Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, has maintained the same proportion of the world market in the industrial sector that had at the beginning of the 1970s.
 Furthermore, according to a better indicator of competitiveness, the investment, France is very well.
 According to a recent report by the Council of economic analysis, direct investment in France grew up to 60 billion in 2001, almost double in Germany.
 The costs of the country also improved competitiveness in) (20% in the last three decades, because greater productivity has balanced the rapid growth of wages.
 But the heart of the economic problems of long-term France is precisely the fear of loss of industrial jobs.
 France is still a strong industrial power in areas such as the traditional automotriz and aerospace, but it is rezagando in markets where smaller companies, innovative diseminan new technologies.
 For example, France only invests 30 billion dollars per year in research and development of high technology, in comparison with the 51 billion of Germany, the 98 billion 265 billion of Japan and the United States.
 In short, the analysis of baverez is moving in the wrong direction.
 France has gone through a series of reforms of critical importance over the past two decades: financial, economic liberalisation and the abolition of controls on prices and on the exchange rate, the end of restrictions on credit, reduction of inflation and the trade deficits, the arrival of the euro and the globalisation of prostitution companies in the country.
 The French concern has nothing to do with any of them.
 The problem with France is that fails to recognise the new world of which is already part.
 The French state capitalism has died and France I find hard to accept his death.
 In fact, France has to be the only country in which a Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, has the duty to apologise to the day after having on television that "the omnipotent state is not".
 There are many reasons behind this schizophrenia French, but one of the main concerns the political game of the past 20 years.
 So, in 1981 France had a clear division between the right and the left.
 Since then, the governments of both Mitterrand and Chirac moderaron their ideological positions in order to carry out the difficult process of adjustment towards Europe and globalisation.
 A "shock therapy 'style of Mrs.
 Thatcher two decades ago could have created a new political awareness, but the slowness in achieving the consensus to adopt the reforms that the French people to live in a world and thinking in another.
 This is one of the fundamental reasons for this cataclysm political erupted during the last presidential campaign, when the leader of the extreme right, Jean Marie Le Pen, came to the second round of elections.
 The rise of the extreme left, which won the 10% of the vote in the presidential election campaign, is also evidence of political failure.
 France needs a revolution, rather than an economic policy, if it wants to come to terms with the fact, part of which is "deterioration French" is a fear that the French themselves have created.
 The value of European values.
 European leaders have resurrected the constitutional talks that are interrumpieron last December to cause a dispute with the rights of vote.
 Of course, these disputes are subject to arrangements, which will probably not be achieved.
 What we need is a clear understanding of what we are trying to achieve the Constitution.
 Two fundamental principles have underpinned European integration: solidarity and subsidiarity.
 Both these principles are at the crossing of philosophy, politics, the economy, and the sociology of law.
 They have been here for years in the legal and institutional framework of the European Union - in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights (the cited in the preamble), and in the recent draft for the Constitution.
 In short, they are part of the history and the ideals of the EU.
 But what really mean solidarity and subsidiarity?
 Consider the solidarity that is open to at least two interpretations static: solidarity, which only has to do with the distribution of income and wealth and the broader concept of solidarity dynamic, which also relates to the production of income and wealth.
 In the post-war history of European integration, solidarity was dynamic force in the first period (the European Coal and Steel Community) in its strategy of economic reconstruction and development () in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty of Rome.
 This does not mean that the dynamic solidarity was deleted subsequently: the European Monetary Union, for example, is another of your expressions.
 So, although some countries have not benefited immediately with the euro, they accepted anyway because they were convinced that in the long term would have positive effects.
 In other words, the dynamic solidarity means to promote policies that promote investment, innovation, economic growth and employment.
 However, as stated in the GDP growth in the EU, the dynamic solidarity has been weakened in the last decade.
 What is most worrying is the delay in research.
 The implementation of the Lisbon strategy, the EU adopted in 2000, and promised to create the most competitive economy in the world is threatened by an ever greater emphasis on solidarity static, which is reflected in the high costs of social security and the high taxes that are needed to finance it.
 The predominance of solidarity static is due to an ageing population, coupled with a slower growth, has generated structural fiscal imbalances.
 One of the greatest challenges for the future of the EU is to address the superiority of the solidarity static directed towards the people more solidarity on the dynamic that benefit young people.
 After all, the European Union cannot allow the consumer to overcoming the investment necessary to ensure the future prosperity.
 Subsidiarity is similar to the concept of solidarity that has two interpretations: subsidiarity vertical and horizontal subsidiarity.
 The vertical subsidiarity relates to the distribution of power between the various levels of government and sovereignty: the EU, the Member States, the regions and municipalities.
 The application of this principle is the most well-known federalism.
 In the European Treaties cannot find a clear expression of vertical subsidiarity.
 But is it enough to accommodate the institutional and constitutional arrangements which are emerging in the European Union?
 The horizontal subsidiarity has to do with the freedom and responsibility of the human being, and the economic and social forces.
 Covers relations between the state, society and the market.
 But society and the market have their own rights and sovereignty, which are not granted by the state.
 Thus, the problem is to ensure the autonomy of each area.
 An example of horizontal subsidiarity is the European internal market, which created a new type of economic freedom and increased competition between companies by removing the protection offered to the national governments.
 The horizontal subsidiarity means that both in the social and economic, the state cannot violate the individual freedom and responsibility, which must be respected to the greatest possible extent.
 It also means that a higher "to" must give support when the individual freedom and responsibility are not enough to achieve the necessary means to human dignity.
 However, this support must be implemented so that promotes the natural potential of individuals, society and the market.
 But this is only possible when the role of horizontal subsidiarity is clearly defined, which is not the case in the European Treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the work of the European Convention.
 In short, the solidarity has become redistribution instead of growth (which is the way in which the current generation expresses its solidarity with future generations), while the subsidiarity has come to mean the distribution of political power, more than a careful distinction between state borders, civil society and the market.
 Today, the definitions of both values are the rule.
 In fact, focusing on growth based on the market is often values semi-ajenos identifies with the United States.
 But these values are deeply rooted in Europe, and it is necessary to take in the light of new.
 The EU must re-establish its economic vitality through a model of solidarity and subsidiarity which is more balanced in favour of the market and society, and to reduce the socio-economic impact of the State.
 The institutions of the State must provide public goods (such as defence, justice and fiscal and monetary policy), society must offer goods (such as culture, education and social assistance to the needy) and the market must provide economic goods (which are connected with the profit, growth and employment).
 In the 21st century, Europe must reconsider the value of both principles (solidarity and subsidiarity) if it wants to achieve the goal of the historic integration: freedom and prosperity required to overcome the differences and divisions policies which have caused the tragedies of the twentieth century.
 That is the spirit in which we should be drawing up the European Constitution.
 The policy of values
 The debate on the American elections has not hardly settled.
 How was the President George W. Bush to obtain more than three million votes Senator John Kerry and, moreover, a Republican majority elected in both chambers of Congress?
 There is no agreement in the answers, but two subjects are occurring in many of the explanations.
 One is the personality.
 In times of uncertainty and threat, people had more confidence in the President who knew that the candidate who had not yet been put to the test.
 The second issue is the values.
 The people voted by a set of values rather than by specific policies.
 In fact, some () says were in accordance with the political Kerry, but you gave your vote in any way because Bush were "to" happy with its general attitude.
 It is clear that the United States are currently deeply divided into electoral terms.
 A blue democrats) (arc of Member States in the East and West, North around a huge area cross (republican) in the centre and the South.
 What is more, the divisions reproduce at local level.
 It is no longer necessary to define the limits of the constituencies for the benefit of any political party in particular.
 The people in fact tends to move to areas where the majority shares its values or whether Republicans, democrats.
 What exactly are these values?
 They have to do, and that is what we heard, with 'God, weapons and gays. "
 Religion plays a role, including the truth wording of the Bible in regard to the history of creation.
 The possession of a weapon is proof of the last individualism, and using weapons in wars is not aborrecible.
 Practices gay and other practices' modern 'are rejected by excessive.
 As raised the political scientist Andrew hacker recently: "the candidature of Bush was drawn up in order to achieve a majority by some 60 million people the opportunity of being well with yourselves".
 What is all this phenomenon, there is an American or similar tendencies elsewhere?
 A response is that as a phenomenon, the American policy of values can now have a majority, but in no way is general.
 Europe and other parts of the world are equally divided.
 Without doubt, the personality matters and below the political differences open can also be issues of values that have not come to the surface.
 But political differences based on traditional disagreement on the fundamental values play a declining in the elections.
 For example, Prime Minister Tony Blair, the next important leader that faces elections used the argument of personality and speaks of policies, but mainly represents a set of values middle class.
 When he talks of "modernisation" or "taking things for the twenty-first century" can suggest a strange mixture of change but attractive and stability.
 This has left the Conservative opposition without an effective response.
 Issues such as the tax cuts and even stricter asylum laws are not achieve fibre of the values that the Republican Party in the United States has managed to.
 The situation is similar in Germany, where the influence of the policy of values is open even less.
 The German debate remains largely a political debate.
 Once the opposition government gives the talks on the reform of the system of health or more recently on the combating of unemployment, competition is about underlying capacities, rather than on values.
 However, below the battlefields common of political debate in England and Germany and elsewhere in Europe merodean shocks of values.
 The parties are fighting for those who can be "feel well with yourselves", but perhaps not fully realise that this issue is only partly policies.
 It is unlikely that religion becoming a central factor in European policy; the surveys show that religious observance is one of the few large differences between Americans and Europeans.
 Weapons also have a different place the Union in mind; what Europeans consider important is its absence.
 It is also a distinctive spate of values pacifists on the continent.
 But the issue of political correctness ("gays") until now also plays a role underestimated.
 What is most important is that Europe itself divides Europeans, as the "national" question arises in each Member of the continent.
 It is a matter of values, inspired by the fear.
 The people want to know where it belongs, and in this process are against the United States or against Europe and towards Europe and to their country.
 Anyway, outside the scope of policies, and even of the policy and joined the domains of dubious symbols and myths.
 This, in any case, is the main danger facing the democratic countries, since the policy of values is something dangerous.
 Reintroduces fundamental divisions in democratic societies whose greatest achievement was precisely to eradicate the fundamentalism of the policy.
 A public debate illustrated a dispute about policies must be framed in a community of values.
 I therefore insist that is a key objective of the policy of freedom.
 Is approaching the era of interests.
 One swallow does not make a summer, and a month of normal growth of employment and prices in the United States does not mean that the Federal Reserve is no longer concerned about the economic and malestares deflation.
 But the day will come when the global begin to raise interest rates, as the central bankers are preparing to resist the slow upward trend in inflation.
 When that day comes, either in the autumn 2005 or 2006 or 2007-estados united and the global economy will face vulnerabilities financial product of success that in the last three years has had to stop the monetary stimulation declines in production and to ease the unemployment.
 The short-term interest rates are alarmingly low: barely 2% in the euro zone, the 1% in the US and Japan zero.
 Monetary policy has been successful expansionist, but only with regard to reduce interest rates to historically low levels, and to persuade investors of the costs of the appropriations will be maintained at their current levels for a long time.
 The main outcome of the monetary stimulus has been raising prices fixed assets: anything which will yield dividends or income is much more attractive, and the same, much more valuable in terms of money -cuando interest rates are very low and is expected to remain so.
 This explains the large gaps that exist between the current prices of goods roots in the US actions in New York, and Frankfurt, London and the long-term bonds everywhere, and what one would normally which are fundamental values.
 What will happen when the banks start to increase interest rates?
 In 1994, the increases in rates caused short-term increases in the long term - falls in prices in the long plazo-de bonds at least twice what models common well ahead at that time.
 Furthermore, the interest rates in the peripheral economies developing grew up much more than the core of industrial progress.
 Thus, the first by the danger that bother 2005 onwards -cuando is more likely that the interest rates are eleven-es another wave of financial crises of the emerging markets.
 For countries such as Mexico, Turkey, Argentina, Brazil, Korea and Thailand, Malaysia, the record of the 1990s shows that the differences in rates of interest can extend and capital flows can reverse incredibly fast, regardless of whether the officials of the IMF and the analysis of the largest banks look favourably on the policies of a country.
 The differences in rates of interest of the emerging markets today are abnormally low.
 The international capital flows - including those who come to the eu-todavía are not at a level that is associated with the irrational exuberance "," but there is still time for this to happen before we begin to raise interest rates.
 This is an alarming prospect, because the lesson that we left the 1990s was that nobody should overestimate the stability of international financial flows.
 The second danger stems from the high value of goods at the heart industrial progress.
 The current thinking of dominant in the Federal Reserve - which I am of acuerdo-parece informático-tecnológica continues to be that the revolution, that the rate of growth of the production potential in the US is still very fast and that, therefore, the gap is relatively broad production.
 This means that, in fact, will need to remain low interest rates for a considerable period.
 In addition, confidence in the Federal Reserve is high and have drawn the interest rates of the last vestiges of risk premiums inflation.
 As a result, even after the return to its potential levels of production, the interest rates will remain low in accordance with the standards of the 1980s and 1990s.
 All this, of course, good news for those who own assets as long-term bonds, actions and real estate.
 In fact, raise prices in the long term of goods was precisely the objective of lowering interest rates: after all, do more to the rich holders of bonds and above all to the owners of real estate is an incentive for expenditure.
 But the worst thing is that even if it is to be hoped that the interest rates remain low for a long time, not be maintained so low indefinitely.
 It is the case that when the interest rates are raised, the value of the goods will fall.
 In these periods - particularly when the value of assets falls rapidly and sustancial-podemos realise exactly the ability of our central bankers to fulfil its main task: to reduce the volatility promote financial and economic stability.
 In these times we are conscious of the number of people who have long-term bonds or shares, real estate because not consider that the current prices are attractive in connection with the economic fundamentals but because their prices have been increasing in recent years.
 This is a crucial issue for designers policies, because those goods acquired long-term due to what seemed to be a permanent increase prices are the same people who have to sell as prices to display be moving backwards.
 In particular, the trade deficit of the US is in sight as a great source of instability if the prices of goods long-term fall significantly.
 Certainly the challenges that will face designers of economic policy in the world over the next few years will be different to those who took since the collapse of the bubble of NASDAQ.
 The risks associated with inflation are perhaps less dangerous than those who create the fall in production and the threat of deflation.
 But, as we learned in the 1990s, that does not mean that the future challenges will be easier to handle.
 The future of United States;
 Recently I knew something interesting: American economists of international finance and the Americans aimed at local macroeconomistas analysis of the USA have very different visions (in fact, opposing the probable consequences) on the enormous current account deficit of the USA.
 Economists of international finance are likely to happen in the United States a financial crisis, followed by recession painful and perhaps prolonged.
 The analysis macroeconomistas aimed at local level, in contrast, see the imminent drop in the value of the dollar, but not as a crisis as an opportunity to accelerate growth.
 In general terms, see the situation in the following way: at some point in the future, the foreign banks will be less willing to continue buying so-called large quantities of values in dollars in order to underpin the role currency.
 When they have completed their programmes for the purchase of dollars on a large scale, the value of the dollar will drop... and strong.
 However, according to this vision, as decline the value of the dollar American exports Iran is making it more attractive to foreigners, strengthen the employment and labour reincorporará the live export sector, that a new phase of boom.
 What happened in England will be like after we left the anchoring of its kind of change and enabled the pound to depreciate with regard to the Deutschmark, or what happened in the United States at the end of the 1980s, when the depreció pound against the dollar, the Deutschmark (and more importantly the Japanese yen).
 Economists of international finance see a future much bleaker.
 They see the end of the programmes for the purchase of dollars on a large scale of the central banks will mean not only a decline of the dollar, but also an increase in long-term interest rates in the United States, which will put an end immediately the spending of consumption and stifle the investment expenditure after a small yet another time bomb laid.
 There is no doubt that the economists of international finance also see that American exports will profit as the value of the dollar, but the retardos lower demand are such that the momentum exporter happen a year or two after the drop in the consumption of spending and investment.
 Eight to ten million people will have to change jobs from the services sector and construction sectors connected with exports and goods that are competing with imports, which means that it will increase the structural unemployment.
 Moreover, there may be a panic financial: the large financial institutions with debts short-term and long-term assets will be in difficulties faced with a large increase in the so-called long-term interest rates in dollars.
 This disparity can cause tensions and financial bankruptcies so easy as debts short-term in dollars and the active in local currency of the banks caused during the Mexican crisis and eastern Asia in the 1990s, and the crisis in Argentina in the 1990s.
 When economists of international finance describe this scenario, the analysis of local macroeconomistas directed at us respond that it sounds like a case of monetary policy incompetent.
 Why the Federal Reserve should allow the long-term interest rates have a large increase only because other central banks have completed their programmes buying dollars?
 Should not intervene and replace them with their own purchases of US Treasury Bonds, thereby maintaining long-term interest rates at a level which will lead to full employment?
 To this, the economists of international finance answer that the Federal Reserve does not have the power to do such a thing.
 If they are forced to choose between full employment and the stability of prices, the economists of international finance say that the Federal Reserve escogerá stability of prices, since its institutional memory of the 1970s, when inflation was the clouds, remains very strong.
 Therefore, since a decline in the value of the dollar increases prices of imports and functions as a blow against the supply side in the economy, the Federal Reserve will increase, not decrease, interest rates and sell bonds instead of buying them.
 On both sides of the debate have serious economists who respect enormously.
 I am not as wise enough to say what is the right side, but I certainly know what I hope I am wrong.
 The gorrones of Europe.
 In America, the Member States have inadequate fiscal policies are facing a punishment.
 Their sold bonds with a reduction in relation to the Member States better administered.
 The higher the debt service that they have to pay a grado-- -- works as a form of discipline against the temptation to spend now and then pay.
 Of course, the discipline of the market is not perfect: the bond market in large measure is "no" implicit (passive future pension payments as promised by).
 However, this fiscal discipline prostitution, together with their own internal budget procedures of each State, managed to give a fiscal crisis large-scale at state level in the US since the great depression.
 I now turn to the case of Europe.
 Before the adoption of the euro, there were many crises tax in the nation states of southern Europe, which were waves of high inflation.
 But with the establishment of the single currency was closed the way for the solution of the crisis through financial inflation, because now the European Central Bank (ECB) monitors monetary policy.
 However, even though the nation states can no longer rely on inflation to solve its financial imbalances, the single currency allows them to use the capacity for indebtedness that properly belongs to other States of the European Union to continue its adventures of expenditure and postpone the political accountability for their periods of them roulés temps laissez bons.
 In order to avoid this possibility, the EU has created the Stability and Growth Pact: the government deficits were to be reduced to 3% of GDP.
 Last week, the government of Germany - which was once the Member State of the EU more prudent and disciplinado-- broke the rules of the Pact on fiscal discipline on the fifth year running, and he did so without major) (apologies.
 The Finance Minister, peer steinbrueck, indicated that it expected the Commission any sanctions imposed in Germany said that if we do not take any measure, the credibility of the Pact would be at risk.
 Therefore, Germany would block it not sanctions on this occasion, as they did two and a half years ago.
 But steinbrueck also made it clear that he hoped that the sanctions in response to the fiscal deficit forecast of Germany's annual 3.4% growth of GDP were largely symbolic, and not punishments that I costaran his government or its economy a great deal.
 The Stability and Growth Pact is not working --o at least not todavía-- remotely as intended to do so.
 And what the discipline of the market?
 It is the limited willingness to make more of the German government deficits and debt have greater because the market recognises and punish the nation states that allow their positions to be watered down tax?
 In a word, not.
 The interest rates of the so-called sovereign debt in euros from the twelve of the eurozone governments are very similar.
 Therefore, the market is not importarle that different countries have the potential to generate exports to finance the financial flows needed to pay for the debt, or different relations debt current and planned - GDP.
 Willem Buiter University of Amsterdam and Anne sibert of the University of London believe that was the willingness of the ECB to accept, in effect, all debt as a guarantee of the eurozone which has undermined the willingness of the market to act as a responsible have fiscal prudence.
 While a marginal part of the German debt is used as a loan guarantee for short-term or as the basis for an agreement of purchase for obtaining liquidity, is much more likely that its value is determined by the terms in which the ECB welcomes the guarantees for its foundations.
 Now that the treatment given to the ECB to all these debts as sources of powerful liquidity reserve dashes any analysis of the differences of sovereign long-term risk.
 In the long term, it is dangerous.
 Both the discipline of the market and the tax administration are necessary to create a fair chance of achieving price stability in the long term.
 If there is no mention of the market for punishment in such a way that they can return reckless or the levers institutional given voice to future generations, there are serious risks --tal may not today or tomorrow, but one day and for the rest of our lives.
 As time passes, the arrival of the single currency and the way in which it has implemented the euro are increasingly causing concern.
 The policy as a whole throughout the euro zone is too deflation.
 We are making the necessary transfers to the common currency is bearable in regions that are losing out and which are already in recession when the ECB does more restrictive policy.
 The institutional foundations of a fiscal policy stable long-term are eroding.
 And now, and sibert Buiter argue convincingly, the ECB is giving the market which should have less room to reward those who save and punish those who waste.
 There is still no movements of soil, and not the will for some time.
 But the land under the euro could start to knock if things do not change.
 Milosevic and the farcical trial as Hussein:
 The trials of war criminals used to be a serious matter.
 Remember the pictures of Herman and goering Rudolf Hess, taciturnos, sitting in the dock in Nuremberg.
 Some leaders Nazis were even after on relatively short but fair trials.
 At present, the legal processes more evil against the leaders of the world have been turned into a farce.
 The trial of Saddam Hussein and his henchmen party Ba ath 'is a never-ending series of vergüenzas.
 The defendants after another and use a ruse Hussein shows its contempt in every possible way.
 It is difficult to wait an outcome that is legitimate Iraqis or in the eyes of the world.
 Meanwhile, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic became funeral after four years of testimonies boring and a cost of over 200 million dollars.
 In Cambodia, the United Nations and the government have almost ten years wavering on the means of bringing to trial of the Khmer Rouge members survivors.
 The mass murderers who took power in the twentieth century were sentenced to death in popular uprisings or to prosecution for their crimes - that is, if not died in office.
 Who would be proud that the last Communist Ceausescu Nicolai, head of Romania, and his wife were executed without even any semblance of a fair trial?
 The formalities of a real Court always seem to be better than the snapshot justice, although the final outcome will also be death.
 There are two possible ways of taking action against a tyrant overthrown.
 A nation may lead to its own former leaders on trial, as did the Argentine in the years 1980 with the general responsible for the disappearance of 5,000 more of their fellow citizens.
 At international level, the model of Nuremberg trials is still available to generate additional, albeit under conditions weasel words with which the victorious powers at times to allocate the responsibility of crimes, as in the case of the 'crimes against humanity', which were not properly defined at the time that were made.
 There was a time when we could see the advantages of trials both national and international.
 The prosecutions enabled the Community to alleviate their local sadness being closely involved in the process.
 As judge and jury, the compatriots of defendants also exercise greater sensitivity to assess the fault because there were aware of the harsh conditions in which a dictator deposed had taken its decisions.
 The trial of the generals in Argentina a ritual was successful in the painful transition from the military junta to democracy, but at the end of the experience there were many doubts.
 Even after the condemnations of the generals were powerful enough to ensure that ends the trials and then obtain the pardon the incoming President.
 The policy of Argentina is still entangled in the legal consequences of those trials of 20 years ago.
 At international level, the decision of the United Nations Security Council to establish the International Criminal Court for the former Yugoslavia – ICTY by their known in English) was also received with great confidence.
 The ICTY took effect in several decisions founding under the leadership of Antonio Cassese.
 But then, had the misfortune of judges who are fulfilling their dream - more longed judge in its court to archivillano Slobodan Milosevic.
 Now it is not clear how the Serbs have handled Milosevic in a trial locally.
 It would have been much of the political party to check the Court.
 At international level, the fear that too was not had policy but right too.
 The trial of Milosevic had to be more than just; it had to be a flagship of the justice of the UN.
 That is why I allowed Milosevic to defend itself --un big mistake in terms of efficiency and the duration of the trial.
 There was a limit on the number of witnesses who called the testimony to pay tax on the same horrific stories of aggression and brutality Serbia.
 Many months will determine what went wrong and why the trial lasted four years, which is a scandal.
 That is my corazonada officials well-meaning influence of the Court were too by the Commission for the peace and reconciliation of South Africa, a model pregonado in schools of law as an alternative to the desired justice of punishment.
 The South Africans processes in the most important issue was not the future of the accused but the victims of the past.
 It encouraged to all the victims were to its history and listening to the accused.
 In the case of the massacres which are being given in the 20th century, these narratives can take decades.
 Encourage victims to speak after the accused and give the right of obstructing the process proclaims its merits as political leader is a formula for postponement infinite.
 One lesson we have learned from the trials of Milosevic and Hussein is that you must not lead to trial men or women in order to put an end to its attractiveness charismatic.
 The trial trastornarán -- all if it allows them to defend itself mismos-- and use the Court to assert their careers.
 To tyrants that there are only to judge them after they have clearly been defeated.
 Ironically, was an advantage for the courts of Nuremberg be composed of representatives of the victorious powers.
 They were a constant reminder to goering Hess and his cronies, that the allies had the control and the Nazis were defeated it.
 The clear objective of the trial was always to punish the guilty, not to choose the way in which I would write history.
 The tragedy in the cases of Milosevic and he is that history has not yet had to be written and was to enjuiciando history itself.
 The indecision resulting from those who were in charge gave rise to --tanto as nacionales-- international procedures that facilitaban the fantasies of demand and return.
 In the case of this fantasy, Hussein still can become reality.
 The economic divide in Iraq.
 Those who look to see Iraq a nation divided between communities Shiites, Sunnis and Kurdish.
 But the growing gap between rich and poor in Iraq is a similarly fundamental division, which has contributed to the insurrection as much as the ongoing sectarian fighting and resistance to occupation led by the United States.
 When Iraq was released, the majority of the people, especially the poor, began to have hope to see a charismatic leader of the rescatara the harsh reality of daily life.
 Having bred with fear, had no idea how democracy could be applied to their society and how we could help human rights groups and other civic organisations to shape the future.
 Very soon Iraq was confronted with a new social division.
 On the one hand, the people who were fully how to function in a democracy, how to achieve the power and fulfil their ambitions.
 Learn to speak the language of democracy and in the process obtained money and influence and recruited Afghan Independent organisations to defend their rights and privileges.
 However, the other side is the huge population of Iraqis without power, including the widows and divorced women who abandoned and that they have to get to grips with them and their children.
 These people for democracy and human rights does not mean anything.
 Are ignorant and are poor, sick.
 They are the victims of an education system which collapsed over a decade ago and have few skills to enable them to find employment in the ruined economy of Iraq.
 During Saddam's regime were not efforts to raise the standards of living of the poor.
 I visited the extensive slums in Iraq and I found families living in houses have barely ceiling, which are infestadas of insects and which they enter water black below the threshold.
 Day and night live in the dark.
 These families, that we need more than a decent housing, food and the possibility of having a job, expect the cries of the terrible death hearing your children who are dying of hunger.
 When I met with the women who live in these houses, I flooded with questions: does democracy will give us food and homes?
 How will prevent men golpeen their wives?
 Does it give citizenship to our children?
 How will give us the right of divorciarnos of their husbands that leave us?
 My answer to all these questions was "yes".
 Yes, democracy will give them the right to live in a decent home, learn and work and will give citizenship to their children and will be equal to men.
 But they must work hard and make every possible effort to demand their rights.
 They replied: "Saddam taught us for 35 years to be unemployed, silent and frightened.
 What can we do now? "
 Desposeídas live in those areas where the majority of the Iraqi people is prey to the temptations bitter.
 Many are beyond the scope of the political leaders and government.
 Easily fall in violence, theft and the sabotage.
 Poverty leads to some to receive money for carrying out acts of violence, instigados by the attractiveness of a false heroism which could not put into practice throughout the regime of Saddam.
 Poverty has exacerbated the trauma of the violent history of wars and atrocities of Iraq, which has allowed the people back insensitive to the fact of killing.
 Although the current conditions of Iraq lead to many young people to violence, I am convinced that all we have to do is give them to rescue them jobs and decent housing.
 Jobs in particular will help young people to create new lives through a serious work.
 We must not use where jobs are not working to disguise an army of unemployed.
 We should give people jobs to enable them to contribute to the reconstruction of the country.
 By nature, every individual person seeking to show that it is a useful for society.
 But culture that Saddam established Iraqis convinced that the only way to obtain authority, money and knowledge is through political contacts.
 Overcoming these ideas will take time and active economy, which means that the new Iraqi Government will have a limited power that allows the private sector will grow and that at the same time a general understanding of democracy and human rights.
 Religious groups are ready to contribute to that process.
 We also rehabilitate technocrats who worked on the government of Saddam so that they also have the opportunity to serve their country.
 Last but not least, we must facilitate loans to families to help build a respectable life.
 Above all, the government must not stint in our efforts to convince the poor people of the value of democracy and freedom, and the importance of the Constitution to fulfil their ambitions of a better life.
 It will not be easy to achieve this in a country in which many people believe that violate the law is an act of heroism.
 But we have also learned that the Iraqi authorities must not be concentrated in a few hands and establish justice requires that the fight against corruption in all its forms.
 For the Constitution to work as a guarantee of democracy, freedom and security, the Iraqi people must learn to take up this fight.
 The Islamic identity.
 Currently, wherever they volteemos Islam is used and abused (it) as a political force.
 What some Muslims used as called to act; many in the West and elsewhere) (this is perceived as a "other" which we must contain and exclude.
 Turkey, as I experiment directly both sides of this debate.
 The reason that Islam is a religion in the eyes of the Western "other" what is in the West has been given a desinstitucionalización systematically religion.
 It is, of course, not religion that has disappeared from the Western modern life, but what they can do religious institutions on the individual behaviour.
 Religion in the modern world is a spiritual and personal experience much more than ever.
 However, also in Islam is giving a process of religious desinstitucionalización experience.
 The politicisation of Islam is replacing the authority of the kind of religion, the ulema.
 As in the West, the Islamic religious experience is becoming more staff.
 One of the results is the interpretation of the texts that are doing religious personally Muslims, including political activists, intellectuals and women.
 Another is the vulgarización knowledge, religious, abusing the lessons of the Koran and brings the context of support for political ends.
 Who decides what is now legitimate and what is illegal in Islam?
 Who has the authority to interpret the texts religious?
 Who can make a fatwa "or" to "Jihad?"
 Today, the activism and terrorism offer, or rather, impose a new source of legitimacy.
 Thus, there are lay person who decides what is and what is not Islam, without the authority of religious schools and a specialist training.
 In fact, Islam is currently interpreted through political actors and cultural movements and not religious institutions.
 Deinstitutionalization Islam has been allowed to evolve from a local and national social link to forge links between all imagined that Muslims feel oppressed or displaced people everywhere.
 In this way, Islam can unite followers than before were deeply divided: the Muslim spiritual Sufis and the canonizados of the shariat Muslims and the Shiites, Sunnis; the Conservative Saudi Arabia and the revolutionary Iran.
 At the same time, Islam is being driven, believers with emerging from rural areas to go to the cities, including those of the West.
 Many see this movement as a negative, and underline the fact that these people are uprooted socially, which leads to the alienation and some to terrorism.
 But social mobility is also a precondition for creating a modern vision.
 Of course, through migration, Muslims feel a sense of alienation, if not all, of social rompimiento its origins.
 Thus, his experience of religion is a kind of new, private institutions theological, Community or state.
 The experience of religion becomes a form of social imagination, within which reconstruyen a sense of belonging to Islam in environments and new alien.
 It is not the distance of modern life, but she is the proximity to which triggers a return to the religious identity.
 In fact, the majority of the radicalismos arise in groups which, by their experiences of mobility and displacement, know the political thinking and secular western urban life.
 In its new environment disoriented, Islam becomes its anchor.
 But to anchor this work, it is necessary to liberate the Islam of its traditional position, passive obedient to servile and modernity.
 To use a veil or beard, to claim the right to places for the sentence at work or the school and to demand special food, Muslims are clearly identified as such.
 You are saying to all those who surround that are more celosos and meticulous in his religious observance those who religiosity to limit their private life.
 For example, the Muslim headscarf to not generally considered as a sign of inferiority degradation and for the Muslim women.
 However, to be a stigma for Muslims, has become a sign of its positive statement of the Islamic identity.
 Young Muslim women in Europe perfectly illustrate this transformation.
 Girls who take the lead in the pañoleta in French and German schools are closer in many respects - namely, the youth culture, language) fashion and their colleagues that kind of their mothers, without education and to stay at home.
 In the field pañoleta by using the European public, these girls are involuntarily altering the symbol and the role of Muslim women.
 This trend is beyond the pañoletas.
 All Western Muslims have a dual sense of belonging, a cultural capital twice.
 We define themselves through its religiosity, but also have acquired knowledge secular universal.
 Since we have a double cultural capital can move with relative freedom between different activities and areas (the home, school, the youth associations and places of entertainment centres).
 Be Muslim and be Islamic is not the same.
 What we are seeing today is a Muslim identity of a shift towards an Islamic identity.
 The case for the Muslim religious is shifting of private area to the public.
 The question is whether the search for all of the identity and pañoletas can be met with a broad public acceptance of the Islamic religious practices, or if the positive statement of Islam requires a more essential renunciation of modernity.
 A new era for the Islamic science?
 For some hundreds of years ago, when the science and mathematics went on for a period of great inventions, a region of the world was highlighted.
 This is veneraba teachers of these disciplines, medicine has progressed quickly and people are common interests in the way in which worked nature.
 It is not surprising that this region was respected globally.
 In the other half of the world is known castigaba and were even murdered scientists.
 Mathematics were banned because they considered outside religion and later were subordinate to this.
 Were low levels of life.
 The prosperous region was the Middle East Islamic, whereas a Europe remained largely ignorant in poverty.
 Both regions (historians religious governments had not reached agreement on the role and the nature of religions in this context) but sciences flourished in only one of them.
 Now, of course, the roles of the Middle East and West Islamic were exchanged.
 Since the Second World War, the United States has been the undisputed leader in scientific issues.
 Throughout this period, the brightest students have emerged from their homelands attracted by better opportunities and universities and research institutions.
 Until recently, more than half of the graduates in the fields of mathematics, science and engineering in the United States were born abroad.
 Many of these were after graduation their talents and both industry and the government used.
 Meanwhile, the Islamic cultures entered into a historic stage in which the sciences are equipped with a Western and influence are avoided.
 Even in those countries where the oil revenues could promote a significant amount of research, the Arab leaders do not promote these investments, and as a result of your societies have not everything that could have been successful.
 Recently, a desire to obtain greater respect political has encouraged the Islamic nations to invest in technology that is where it is most note in nuclear ambitions of Pakistan and Iran.
 Although these weapons have political clout, the scientific support concepts that are old and mundanos.
 It is the most significant respect which derives from incubar ideas, which is evident from the previous discoveries of products.
 Imagine if the influence that there would be an institute Pakistani outside the world leader in research on cancer.
 What would the rhetoric of Oman descubrieran researchers policy if the key to eliminate aids?
 This is an opportunity that has not been used.
 But there is another, and not only for the Islamic societies.
 The United States have committed serious errors recently.
 The "issues of faith 'sciences have replaced throughout the government, starting with the President.
 Political officials have changed reports of researchers important when the facts contradict official thinking.
 Driven by an administration influenced by religion, the educational systems are changing its approach to the sciences' values'.
 Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, the visas are scarce and more difficult to obtain, which has reduced the flow of young talent to American universities.
 The important scientific organisations have protested, without achieving results.
 At the same time, the tax laws have been changed to richer investors in the short term, which discourages long-term investments in research.
 The Iraq war has spent the trillion dollars, similar to the amount that was devoted to support all the basic research thousand in recent years.
 Even if the United States be fought by an average age of fundamentalist, clearly run the risk of losing its predominance world in the field of research.
 Japan has recognised the link between the political influence and science in the decade of the 1980s.
 The main industrial Japan, akio morita Sony, President of the right of political and shintaro ishihara gave a number of speeches that have recorded in 1986 and published a book entitled the Japan can say that not (Japan could not say).
 Esbozaban a national strategy in which it was understood that the influence of the world derivaba scientific leadership.
 The central idea was that the military power could become obsolete if other nations controlaran "chain" of the military technology.
 The title of the Green concerns the action of Japan to say "no" to the influence of the United States military once that Japan check military key technologies.
 Building a knowledge-based economy by using the oil wealth is clearly possible.
 For example, Texas, as the majority of the southern states of the United States, once was poor and economically was in decline.
 Although had oil revenues, the flow of dollars an economy does not in itself increases prosperity as much as you might think.
 That is why Texas decided to devote their money from the oil fund an education.
 At the moment, this fund is about the same as the Harvard University is apportioned between 15 and universities.
 The effect has been impressive: the aeroespaciales manufactures have almost disappeared from California but are flourishing in Texas.
 A multitude of centres and telecommunications companies have to mudado Texas, even the giant Canadian telecommunications nortel.
 Although the manufacturing sector is in crisis in the United States, Texas manufacturing has one of the strongest economies in the world.
 There is no reason why we should not be able to achieve the same result in the Middle East.
 But first, the Islamic world must rediscover and adopt a heritage of which we should be proud of.
 The debate on Iraq in Iran.
 No country in the Middle East is more outstanding events of the war in Iraq that Iran.
 The geographical proximity, intense and bloody history of conflict with Iraq of Saddam Hussein, religious and emotional connections with the Shiite concerns about Iraq and the United States and its policy in the region are all ties that bind western Iran with its neighbour.
 Given the current tensions with America, Iran is particularly concerned about the likelihood that the Americans are put in the way of learning neighbouring nation, as well as by the dominant role of the US in determining the future of Iraq pos-saddam.
 To those who are outside the country I can prove difficult to follow the Iranian internal discussions, but these do exist and are intensive, albeit not always visible to the public international more general.
 There are three general approaches that can be recognized in the current debate on the Iranian pos-saddam Iraq.
 The pragmatic Iranian inevitably argue that Iran will have to cooperate with us, at least to safeguard the rights of the Iraqi population Shiite.
 For this reason, Iran should obtain assurances that a new leadership in Iraq would not be hostile, friendly and should seek bilateral relations.
 Other considerations pragmatists are vital for the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and the repatriation of tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees living in Iran.
 Those Moderates believe that the government of Iran should put pressure on the US to achieve the extradition of the members of the mujahdin-e Khalq Organisation (MKO) that are based in Iraq, as well as the total decommissioning of this group.
 Instead of this, the government of Iran should give its support to the safeguarding of peace, stability and security in Iraq.
 In short, the pragmatic limit the dealings between Iran and the US, manteniéndolos focused on a programme reflecting mainly concerns the internal Iran.
 The conservative forces in Iran majority support this position.
 Another position sought a more active role and cooperative of Iran in the reconstruction of Iraq.
 The supporters of this vision argue that Iran is in a good position to make that reconstruction is easier, due to their infrastructure well-established links of personal and institutional in Iraq.
 Sooner or later, argue, the US and the international community will recognise the value of the Iranian cooperation.
 Cooperation with Iranian should pay for the decommissioning of the infrastructure of MKO in Iraq, perhaps joined the Iranian commitment to increase its efforts to put an end to any activity of Al Qaeda, so as to exclude from Iran to its Members.
 What is most important, Iran should press for us to give the safety of its cooperation will be the reciprocal guarantee American element that Iran will not be the target of a US military action in the future.
 In short, the advocates of cooperation are calling for an open debate and explicitly: Iran's support of the Pact during the current transitional phase in Iraq, as well as its commitment to maintain relations of cooperation with the permanent government that emerges in Iraq, whatever their sign, in exchange for an improvement in the position of regional and international Iran.
 This vision is very popular among the Iranian reformists (both inside and outside the government) and the class technocratic and more international trade with mentality.
 Finally, for the radical Iranian, the possibility of relations of cooperation with the US is a pure fantasy.
 They believe that America is determined to undermine the safety of Iran and damage their national interests.
 From the point of view of the radicals, the least that awaits us is dictate changes of scale in the Iranian foreign policy.
 And what is more, the American propose argue, is pressing for a change of regime in Iran.
 The US undertake initiatives against the acquisition of knowledge and nuclear energy by Iran, and may even try to weaken the general Iranian military capacity.
 These are the radical invasion of Iraq to us as a reflection of the American desire surrounding Iran.
 In response, believe that Iran must actively defend their interests, a strategic alliances with Russia and other regional powers and using the influence of Iran in Iraq in order to prevent a government proestadounidense emerges in Baghdad and antiiraní.
 The radical factions all support this view.
 Overturn Saddam's regime was the easy part of the Iraqi crisi.
 Now is the difficult: strengthening the peace and security, win the war against terrorism and convince the Muslim masses that America has no intention of occupying Iraq, seizing their oil and reshape the Middle East to its image and similarities.
 In the meantime, is likely to increase the opposition to the US, expressed in suicide bombing and other forms of terrorism.
 Iran is intended to continue playing a regional role of first importance, because its dynamism and its political identity Muslim echoing extensively in the Muslim world.
 What happens in Iraq will have implications of first importance to Iran, and the US is well advised in regard to seek ways of recognising this fact.
 The Americans, threats or speculation about another war, inflaman the flames of resentment and frustration in Iran, strengthening the most radical forces.
 If America wants to avoid this result, must consider limiting the influence of their own radical, recognising that American interests benefit in Iraq with greater cooperation with Iran.
 The outflow of Iraq
 It has finally been reached the point that in Iraq tode ostensibly the world wants the same thing: the removal of the country of the coalition forces.
 The recent leak of a document on the British Ministry of Defence withdrawal of troops highlights this wish.
 The only question is how satisfacerlo.
 While the coalition forces remain in place, it is likely that the violence increases.
 But if you go, will also increase, but more quickly.
 So, the real question is how to reach the point where Iraq has a police and army to which they can trust the maintenance of law and order.
 We must move forward to even much closer together.
 Despite the value of the many Iraqis who enter the army or police, it is no surprise that some may be reasons which are not as cigars.
 In the north of Iraq are saldando old scores and has introduced a de facto ethnic segregation in areas such as irbil that were traditionally diverse.
 In other areas has been introduced by force the Sharia law.
 How, then, can create uniformados Iraq services to which people can entrust the application of the law in an efficient manner and without impartial considerations ethnic, religious or gender?
 The answer is traditional, training and recruit inculcating values "the right".
 But there is not enough time for that.
 We need other methods.
 In the absence of a system of values deeply rooted, Iraq needs to civil society organisations which make the police and the army accountable.
 Could take different forms, but what is important is that really are inclusive at local level and that they receive support from the structures of power distritales when national, regional and establish that there is abuse.
 If there is a vote and strengthening local and national recognition of the value of this vote, then it is likely that the majority of Members of the forces uniformadas behave properly and to be able to identify and punish more easily if they do not do so.
 This might seem to be too optimistic, but in Afghanistan, a country that is similar to Iraq in many respects, there are groups who are working to achieve this goal.
 The partnership for peace and unity (cpau) provides a model of the way in which this can be done.
 In Afghanistan, as in Iraq, the priority of the ordinary people has been achieving a reduction of violence.
 The cpau worked throughout the country during the last three years in order to establish peace at distrital works councils, supported by satellite peace in the peoples.
 The initiative is facing a culture in which violence is entrenched ever that children learn arithmetic count the number of Soviet soldiers dead.
 Therefore, the committees looking for all sections of the Community --incluyendo teachers, tribal and religious leaders, women, judges, police, soldiers and empresarios-- work together to design non-violent ways to resolve disputes.
 Although the supervision has not been a formal part of the role of the committees (until now stipulates that in the future it is), the simple fact that the army, the police and the judiciary form part of these committees puts them in contact with the rest of the Community, and offers retroalimentación begins to build confidence.
 Some results are clear.
 In a workshop, the military commander local attended a couple of hours per courtesy and ended but the whole week.
 The final apologised for his violent past and undertook to disarm his private army of 2,000 States.
 Now visit regularly the offices of the Committee.
 In Iraq, projects such as the heart of humanitarian link in Kirkuk are beginning to play a role in monitoring the offer to the local population, as diverse ethnic, the opportunity to present their complaints and receive aid for resolving them.
 But too often, even when there is a court judgment, this does not apply to the cause of intimidation.
 American and British forces have already done much good work to strengthen civil society.
 We hear talk of workshops to empower women or the organisation of successful elections small-scale throughout the country.
 But to mobilise civil society is a huge challenge, especially when, as in the case of Iraq, needs to be done quickly and on a large scale.
 The military force is still needed, but so too are the incentives to lay down their weapons, including the prospect of economic opportunities that are more lucrative that crime and blackmail.
 Fortunately, the ability to create cheap as civil society is so important.
 The Centre linking humanitarian serve all Kirkuk an annual cost of barely 75,000 dollars.
 With 10 million dollars could replicate these centres are 100 times and sobraría enough.
 The challenge is to engage with this approach, to strengthen and to give full support to the courageous people who is facing the challenge of hold the power.
 Otherwise, it is unlikely that the Iraqi people will have the certainty that, after so many years of suffering, urgently needs.
 How democracy in the nilo?
 The decision by the Egyptian President Mubarak sorpresiva hosni proposing a constitutional amendment that would have direct presidential elections and competitive can be a gigantic step forward for democracy in the Arab world and Egypt.
 In the western world, used to pluralist democracy, they may be difficult to understand the enormity of the potential change this may mean that a country that is used in the military government for more than 50 years.
 Under the current system, the Egyptian citizens can only be presented the day of a presidential referendum every six years and to vote in favour or against the single name that appears in the ballot.
 This explains why someone like Mubarak always received more than 90% of the votes, but with a participation has been indifferent.
 The leaders of Syria and Iraq have been even better with this system, without doubt because demanded that the names and directions of voters to calce featured in every vote.
 Many have argued for a long time that the democratisation of the Middle East will not progress so much that Egypt is fully committed to the process.
 Egypt could not really take the road to democratization without reforming its first Constitution -- fit for pharoahs reducing the powers of its President and to set limits on its period of government.
 After all, it is already 24 years as President Mubarak.
 Therefore, the announcement that presidential elections competitive wants is an important first step.
 The regime can assume that will use the process for its own benefit, but perhaps the events are not so easy to monitor when people start to feel that has the power.
 The genius of democracy has emerged from the bottle.
 In any case, Egypt is not the only country in this troubled region to take the path of democracy.
 Turkey, on the one hand, the Middle East, Morocco and on the other, are already well advanced.
 This time the real impetus stems from the proximity and the positive results of the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and to a lesser extent Saudi Arabia.
 The unprecedented demonstrations against the occupation Syria in Lebanon following the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq al-hariri, not showing any signs of calm down.
 The opposition groups Egyptians have carried out by increasingly bold and other forms of civil disobedience in recent weeks.
 The catalyst for their anger was the arrest of ill opposition leader Ayman Nour at the end of January.
 The conduct of the heavy hand of local government revitalizó movement "kifaya") (enough, has demanded that the end of the regime Mubarak.
 Suddenly, the popular conception of the Egyptians passive and are afraid to act would appear not to be true.
 Is forming an alliance of local, regional and international forces against the tyranny of "always" of the shores of nilo.
 The recent wave of popular pressure seems to have shaken the regime.
 Only a month ago, desechaba Mubarak the demands of constitutional reforms calificándolas of fruitless.
 But anyone who has been the combination of factors which led to a change of opinion, we must welcome the initiative for the elections.
 It is a first necessary step insuficiente-- -- but to redesign the stalled political system in Egypt.
 The Egyptians are suspicious of the symbols of the reforms in the style of Tunisia, where President Zine the abidin bin Ali, with a great deal of time in power, created a caricature of constitutional amendment which seemed to open the doors to competitive after the elections, to create an electoral farce some opponents "with" escogidos for him.
 Referenda in previous presidential bin, Ali received normally 99% of the vote this time was 96%.
 Let us hope that Mubarak taken more seriously electoral reform.
 As a sign of honesty, must organise the immediate release of Ayman Nour and take steps to put an end to the state of emergency that deprives over 24 years and which prevents the facts to be carried out presidential campaigns.
 Mubarak must also support a limit of not more than two consecutive periods of five years for any President.
 The confidence-building measures are also needed and include the open and fair access to the media, which are now controlled by the state.
 I announced that I intend to disputar the forthcoming presidential elections as a way of opening the debate on these essential reforms.
 But with regresaría taste in my life of citizen once they ensure free and open elections in the autumn.
 If applied with seriousness, these measures will transform the legacy of Mubarak.
 Together with the events in Lebanon, Iraq and Palestine, may well open a spring of Arab freedom that should have come long ago.
 What a historic election in Egypt?
 The Egyptians down through the ballot box 7 September to elect a president of between 10 candidate, who has been included for 24 years, hosni Mubarak.
 Although few doubt that the result will be the re-election of the latter, many are passionately following the process.
 Some 6 000 observers have received national training for these elections and hundreds of foreign correspondents are converging this week in the country.
 Although all the details of a formal real electoral contest are present, important aspects of authenticity is conspicuous by its absence.
 Despite the promises made in the opposite direction, the playing field is far from being the same for everyone.
 Mubarak continue with active disproportionate: recognition of the name, a virtual monopoly of electronic media state-controlled and 85% of the print media.
 A week before the elections, some opposition candidates have not yet been able to make an announcement in Egyptian electoral television.
 All the members of the Commission of the presidential elections have been appointed by the electoral Mubarak and new rules have been removed all candidates independent.
 Since the year 2000, the 8 000 judges of Egypt must monitor and certify the election results, according to a resolution of the Supreme Court.
 It was an important step towards the holding of elections fairer, because the professional association of the judiciary has followed in conjunction with quite independence, despite the attempts of the executive of arrebatársela over half a century.
 So the regime Mubarak has had to rely on various manoeuvres in order to neutralise the association of the judiciary.
 One was the possibility of extending the definition of "judiciary" to include thousands of employees who are loyal government titles of graduates in law, but not experience judicial unarmed, which leaves the real judges, because, if their protest boycotting the task of monitoring functions, will once again in the police's infamous Ministry of the Interior.
 So, in the past, the association of the judiciary Amen used to say, with the results predictable.
 In the parliamentary elections in 2000, while the ruling party Mubarak received 38% of the popular vote in districts overseen by the real judges, that percentage became nothing less than 86% where supervision flowed from the cuasijueces.
 This year that seems to be very different.
 In the spring judges held a national assembly and decided that, unless the regime accorded total independence and the exclusive supervision of the voting process, not supervisarían the next presidential and parliamentary elections ().
 On 2 September presented its demands end: allow civil society groups observe the voting process, ending the interference in the definition of the judges legitimate with a view to the elections and access to the permanent presence of a judge legitimate in front of each of the ballot box until it has been told, certificate and communicated its content.
 Until now, it is likely that the situation is a blind alley, because the chairman of the electoral commission has publicly declared on television Egyptian which rejects the supervision of the electoral process by all citizens.
 Another interesting developments on the eve of the elections is raging, a public debate on whether the vote or boycott presidential elections.
 Various opposition parties have asked their States which do not participate in protest against: electoral restrictive rules that are enormously Mubarak.
 On the other hand, the Muslim Brothers, as the group of opposition stronger of Egypt, are urging his followers to go to vote and to do so in good conscience, but not to support any despotic corrupt ruler "and".
 This is a clear repudiation of implicit, although, Mubarak the single governing 24 years.
 Thirty-four civil society organisations are preparing to thousands of young Egyptians to observe the elections, despite the repeated objections organisations.
 These groups argue that, if the regime we are not proposing the rigged election results, the presence of national and foreign observers of the electoral process should not be a problem.
 The response of the regime is that any external supervision is a violation of the Egyptian national sovereignty and the observers are an affront to the integrity of the judges.
 This argument was quickly invalidado when the association of the judiciary announced that supported the presence of observers from civil society.
 Whether the regime Mubarak is frightened to the internal and external demands on the increase to hold free and fair elections or, quite simply, that is unable to refine the party of their natural inclination to deception, the current signals are not a good omen for the elections to be held next Wednesday.
 In the meantime, Egyptians are experiencing for the first time the emotion to challenge the tyranny and enjoy a new-found space for freedom.
 The envy of Europe towards the dollar.
 The coins can become the focus of commercial transactions, but not only of diplomatic disputes and policies.
 When this happens, commercial transactions are made more difficult and are subject to greater uncertainty.
 The politicisation of money for the depression of entreguerras was economically devastating.
 But there have been cases of the latest perverse struggles of coins.
 In the 1960s order international monetary became the focus of a political guerrilla warfare.
 Each side was very different theories and explanations about what is happening.
 Europeans (in particular the French) has complained that the General Charles de Gaulle called "the exorbitant privilege 'of the US dollar.
 The general and its gurú monetary, Jacques rueff, argued that the US used the status of the dollar as the main reserve currency engendered by the regime of fixed exchange rate of Bretton Woods deficits and have to pay their military adventures abroad (at that time, Vietnam).
 France was called to reform a monetary union which ended with the peculiar role of the dollar and try to revive the gold standard, for then greatly discredited.
 Europeans began a long discussion on the advantages of monetary union, achievement that would allow them to look to the dollar face to face.
 But, from the point of view, the role of international American dollar was a trap.
 Other countries could change their exchange rates and this gave greater competitiveness for their exports.
 The US Government was powerless in the face of a yen devalued, which feed the belief that the rest of the world the dollar used to attack the manufacturing base of us.
 The administration Nixon came to the conclusion that the only way to save the American economy was unilateralism monetary: monetary expansion so radical that other countries are forced to adjust their exchange rates.
 These battles, long forgotten, have become of current very soon.
 The world is no longer has a system of fixed exchange rate, but the dollar remains the main reserve currency, a especia Bretton Woods floating.
 For the role of the American dollar reserve is a potential threat, whereas in the rest of the world, it is another example of the ambition neoimperialista hegemonic us.
 In this decade, China has taken the place of the 60 in Japan, maintain its exchange rate under to stimulate growth of their exports.
 Consequently, it is the target of complaints from the US by unfair competition and its efforts to make an adjustment of the kind of change which makes the Americans who buy toys, equipment and clothing manufacturing China.
 The manufacturers of us have decided that the Chinese clothing market constitutes a threat to the American way of life.
 In the meantime, Europeans (particularly the French) complain about the large deficits us again and it is fashionable de Gaulle the argument that the rest of the world is paying for the wars in America.
 Some Europeans suggest that the Asian banks should have a greater part of their reservations in euros, which is an echo of the failed attempt by general forcing us dollars vendiera received and gold.
 The 60 ended in a breakdown of the "and" system in an important financial turbulence, accompanied by an increase in inflation in the prices of basic products.
 All were injured, and the role of the US in the world affairs received a major blow.
 Now, if a similar probably collapse would have a different effect.
 The current system of type floating is more solid and costs of adjustments are distributed differently.
 The majority of Americans are too strong for the fall in the dollar, because the sellers of foreign goods must adjust its prices to the US market.
 The Asian economies are growing vigorously and their central banks are accumulating titles of debt in the US.
 It is possible to continue with this policy, because the alternative would be a sudden setback of the competividad their exporters in the very important sectors of the American market.
 This gives us more time to deal with a current account deficit which, in the long term, is unsustainable.
 The regions of the world economically dynamic, North America and Asia, then they are linked by a Pact that will ensure the continuity of the central role of the US dollar.
 The Americans will accumulating debt, because we want the Asian countries.
 Breaking the Pact would run counter to the interests of both sides.
 This is not American unilateralism, because that means working with Asia.
 But for Europeans, who are excluded from the Pact, as this is a unilateralism monetary and economic.
 Meanwhile, the rate of the euro against the dollar creates major hardships for exporters of European manufacturing.
 However, Europe cannot do much to ease the situation.
 In fact, it will be the main damaged struggles of the new currency.
 The answers that arose at the 60 (resurrect the gold standard, or the invention of a single common European) already do not seem to be very useful.
 Having a single currency has provided us with a substantial protection.
 The old version of the European response, which sicólogos llamarían "the envy of the dollar ', will only grow.
 The European Central Bank will be called upon to extend its monetary basis, as if imitate the dollar outside the answer to all the industrial, structural and demographic problems affecting Europe.
 But a moment's reflection we must remember that the probelmas of Europe cannot be resolved by the monetary manipulation.
 We must see the protests against the new version of the exorbitant privilege of what they are: the US as a way of countering the fundamental lack of power in Europe.
 So the envy of the dollar is here to stay, and will be even more as the value of international notes the Greens is falling, without appreciable adverse effects on the people that the print and uses.
 An epidemic of policy.
 The Americans, as citizens of many other countries around the world, have come to accept that the policy plays an important role in the appointment of some public servants.
 Few surprised (although some people are disillusioned) should be given a position of federal judge or diplomatic high-level a candidate who pass evidence of loyalty on principles which are important for the party of President or the Prime Minister.
 But almost everyone agrees that sciences are something else, and that, in the United States are becoming a sobering example for the rest of the world.
 The scientists appointments should be based on objective criteria of training, capacity and performance.
 Obviously, it is legitimate to interrogate secretary of a future health and rights ssh services () on its position with regard to abortion.
 But to submit evidence of political loyalty to those who have been appointed to participate in scientific advisory committees is totally out of place.
 In the same way, membership in the bodies to carry out the proposed revision of the scientific evidence of their peers (process which is essential to the scientific advance) should certainly be free of barriers which do not relate to the professional qualifications.
 Unfortunately, the US scientists are increasingly finding themselves with barriers of this kind.
 Last autumn the magazine science published several articles relating to this issue.
 One narraba replacing the destruction of the members of the Advisory Committee of the National Centre for the environmental health, which forms part of the centres for the prevention and control of diseases (CDC by their known in English), without consulting the director of the centre.
 Other similar cases took place in the advisory committee on poisoning lead and prevention, the advisory committee on human shields in research and the advisory committee on genetic tests.
 The current epidemic of ideology, which are closing or reconstituyen with new members and the advisory committees will be put to the candidates for evidence of loyalty is nothing new for some observers.
 The ssh officials say that it is a practice rather "common".
 Well, it is not common practice in the United States, or at least not used to be.
 In any case, what is truly worrying that the Bush administration is not examine the candidates to see if they are compatible with their 'values'.
 What is more alarming is the depth that have reached the findings on ideology, which are invading areas that were once immune to this kind of manipulation.
 In fact the case, perhaps more revealing of the epidemic was growing political change of personnel in the section of the National Institute for Security Studies and health and safety at work, which evaluates study grants for injuries in the workplace.
 It may be that the advisory committees have been vulnerable in the past to occasional moves of this kind.
 After all, are those who recommend softer lines that politicians may or may not be taken into account.
 But what sections of the study?
 In October 2002, science published an editorial signed by David michaels and a group of colleagues.
 Several were former distinguished public servants who had participated in some of the committees concerned, and offered a valuable perspective on the matter, based on their personal experiences.
 Article in itself was interesting, but what happened after what was still further.
 Triggered an avalanche of letters of scientists relataban similar experiences.
 A candidate to join the coordinator of the Committee on Research, distrofia muscular belonging to the national institutes, who was a member of staff of the White House the interviewed.
 After several answer questions about their views on the various policies of the Bush administration, none of them linked with the work of the Committee, I asked the President if supported the policy on embryonic stem cells.
 In another letter, a distinguished Professor of psychiatry and narró psychology that you had received a phone call from the White House about your nomination to participate in the National Council on the abuse of drugs.
 The person who I telefoneó informed that had to be investigated in order to determine whether there is "points of view which could prove embarrassing for the President '.
 According to Professor, the official of the White House I made a number of questions and had the account.
 One example: "you two to three; the President opposes the needle exchanges (for users of drugs intravenosas) on moral grounds, regardless of the outcome."
 After the exchange, gave a shift more sickening.
 The official asked if the nominated had voted by the Bush administration, and to hear that not asked: 'why do you not supported the President? "
 This happens in dictatorships, not in democracies.
 The aim of an advisory scientific advice is to give a balanced and considered for the process of political decisions.
 There is nothing to be gained, and much has pierde-cuando is put forward by the result of political wishes.
 That is why the decisions on what research projects have always support have been taken on the basis of studies by peers, not political.
 In fact, the staff regulations applicable to this - the federal law of committees consultivos-exige specifically that the committees are balanced and that "are not unduly influenced by the authority which the appointed".
 The Secretary health services and rights of the US, Tommy Thompson and the office of staff of the White House should set an example to the rest of the world.
 I can very easily: in accordance with the law.
 Murder in Moscow.
 It is time to put an end to the fiction of that "the dictatorship of law" of the post-communist Funk Putin did that Russia was less anarchic.
 The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of the best and most courageous journalists of Russia, a woman who has dared to make the brutal murder committed by Russian troops in Chechnya, is the final proof that President Putin did not do more to offer a dictatorship and common practice, with the usual contempt for the law.
 It is appropriate that the world, Europe, particularly bearing in mind the acceptance of this.
 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Germany is producing a policy on Russian relations / German that will cult of indifference towards the illegality of Putin's national interest in the most powerful Member of the European Union.
 But the indifference becomes appeasement when encourages Putin to implement its anarchic form in the international arena, and in its current campaign to stifle the economy of Georgia.
 The murder of Politkovskaya frightful generated a feeling of déjà vu: like at the height of the KGB, people simply disappears in Russia Putin.
 The murder of the third Politkovskaya is death with political contours within three weeks.
 Ziganshin Enver engineer of Russia, the main BP, was murdered in a firearm Irkutsk on 30 September.
 Andrei Kozlov, the Vice-Governor of the Central Bank of Russia that lideraba a campaign against financial fraud, was murdered on 14 September.
 The fact that the public prosecutor of Russia, the general chaika Yuri, was in charge of the investigation into the murder of Politkovskaya, as it did with the murder of Kozlov, not generates expectations, as would a high level of participation in any real democracy.
 In fact, the participation of the highest level of government of Russia is almost a guarantee that will ever be found to the murderers.
 The murder of Politkovskaya is a particularly dark omen if one bears in mind that was a strong criticism of the President of Russia.
 In its articles on one of the few remaining independent newspapers in Moscow, novaya gazeta, and in their books "Putin 's Russia: life in failing to democracy" (Putin's Russia: life in a crisis in democracy) and "dirty war in Chechnya: Russian Reporter' (a dirty war: a federation reportera Politkovskaya wrote in Chechnya), on the disipación freedoms that is the identification marks of Putin's Presidency.
 As is shown by the exile of the former entrepreneurs and media Boris berezovsky Vladimir gusinky, and the incarceration of cereal tanker Mikhail Khodorkovsky, three destinations ahead with the enemies of Putin: prison, exile or the grave.
 I am not accusing the murder of the Putin Government to pay Politkovskaya.
 After all, as a journalist research enfureció many people also Putin, among which is nothing less than the current Prime Minister, Chechen Ramzan Kadyrov, whom she accused of implementing a policy of extorsivos abductions.
 But even if the partners Vladimir Putin had not had nothing to do with the murder of Politkovskaya in the lift from your department in the centre of Moscow, the disregard for the law of the President gave rise to the climate in which the perpetró culpable.
 As the murder of Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Beckett cathedral in its many centuries ago, the crime was committed in the clear conviction that would be the king.
 Compared to what Politkovskaya represented - the responsibility of a democratic press of questioning the Kremlin and their políticas-, the government should have ensured that you were nothing wrong.
 The Russia of Putin already lost 12 prestigious journalists who were murdered in the last six years.
 None of these crimes has been resolved, which would not be the case if the dictatorship of the "right" Putin was more than a public relations strategy.
 The period of six years that Vladimir Putin came to the Kremlin has been a time of signals deeply opposed.
 On the one hand, the world sees a leader young and educated which promises to modernise Russia, particularly in terms of align their legal practices and fulfilment of the law with international standards.
 On the other hand, the President observed in silence while their former colleagues in the security service FSB Russia (the former KGB) would not offer any security to the murdered and made a number of notable causes of espionage against journalists, scientists and environmental activists.
 Among these are the spies' neo 'journalist Grigori Pasko, the expert on arms control, the moiseyev Igor Sutyagin diplomatic Valentin, the physical Valentin danilov and others.
 The influence of civilizadora supposedly be a partner, a Western chairing the G8 Summit in St Petersburg, for example - seems to have gone in the Kremlin wonder Putin.
 Once again, the exposure to Western values generated other city; Russia presents a Potemkin facade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind the backdrop to govern the same cardboard beasts arbitrary.
 The danger to the world is that the anarchy of Putin is exporting.
 Throughout the near abroad, Russia is to hold a form of criminalizada diplomacy.
 Let us look at the Putin fraudulently attempt to manipulate the previous presidential elections in Ukraine and the criminal charges against intermittent presented the leader of the opposition yuliya Tymoshenko.
 Let us look at the separatist regions in Moldova and Georgia to exist only thanks to the support of the Kremlin.
 Let us look at the way in which the Kremlin is attempting to hold on to its neighbours, threatening to suspend its energy supply.
 All police knows that when it ignores the criminal behaviour, become more intrépidos criminals.
 It is time for the world to recognise that Vladimir Putin for what it is: a man who is retrotrayendo Russia in the shadows.
 So the world today should consider the ancient maxim in Latin tacet qui consentere videtur -- silence means consentimiento- and ask if this is intelligent consent to silence the construction of a superpower that Putin energy without law.
 The gaseoducto towards the Russian empire.
 Gerhard Schroeder, who even less than a month ago was Chancellor of Germany, agreed to be President of the company that is building a gaseoducto, from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea, and from there to Western Europe.
 In many countries, I acusaría Schroeder are now of the offence of conflict of interests.
 Its apparent lack of ethics is growing by the fact that at the moment Russia is threatening to interrupt the gas supply to Ukraine if that country does not yield to the demands of the price of gas giant ownership of the Kremlin, Gazprom.
 The strategic role of Russia is obvious: suspend the gas supply to Ukraine also means gas to interrupt a large part of Europe, because some of their gaseoductos larger through Ukraine.
 To avoid Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic countries, of course, the new gaseoducto promises given greater influence in their pursuit of the Kremlin reposition themselves regionally.
 President Vladimir Putin and his administration of clones of the former KGB soon will not have to worry about Western Europe when deciding what are very strong pressure on the post-Communist neighbours of Russia.
 Europe should really give Putin this new weapon imperial?
 Or worse, Russia could use this weapon against the European Union addicted to energy?
 The fact that a former German Chancellor will lead the company that can give Russia the means to manipulate the economy of the European Union is testimony to the complacency dangerous for Europe with regard to the ambitions neo-imperial Putin.
 Certainly, the Russian media are unaware of the Europe of growing dependence on Russian energy.
 In fact, it is deleitan with her: after to integrate and increase our common business of gas, write to the Russians, Europe editorialistas keep silent about human rights.
 Putin expresses this position in a more oblicua with its commitment to carry out what the policy calls an "independent".
 What I mean by that is that Russia must be "independent" of the moral concerns and human rights of the Western democracies.
 Perhaps some leaders really believe that the comfortable maintain the prosperity of the Union justifies silent in the field of human rights and other issues which disturb the Kremlin.
 Of course, we can say what we think, briefly, on issues such as the "trade" expropriation of YUKOS, but if the Kremlin puts a price to our values or criticism of the offences committed by Russia - in, for example, the manchada of Chechnya sangre- Europeans seem to be prepared to keep quiet the mouth not to face the possibility that there is an increase in the price of energy, or even a blockade and the Ukraine it now faces.
 As the Court subordinando reordena Putin, the Duma to their will, the expectations of the European Union greater Europeanization of Russia should be abandoned.
 Russia is building Putin has become the hopes of post-Soviet free a bastion of gas and oil to its new elite former KGB.
 In fact, warnig Matthias, the chief executive of the consortium gaseoducto Schroeder will lead, that is a friend of long Putin.
 The Wall Street Journal reported at the beginning of this year warnig, who is leading the branch of Russian Dresdner Bank, agent of the Stasi, the secret police in eastern Germany, Putin and experienced at the end of the 1980 years when the Russian President was in eastern Germany as spy KGB.
 The fact that the Russians will tolerate a government of former members of the KGB, for whom the lack of compassion and intolerance to dissent is the rule, reflects its exhaustion of disturbance in the last twenty years.
 Now the Kremlin seems to believe that what is good for the Russians common is good for the independent countries: the small and weak countries will not be compassion once Russia gets the tools, threatening to cut them off from intimidating and with the prospect of an energy blockade.
 As a former head of state of the newly independent Lithuania, often had to bear these threats.
 The European Union has signed many agreements with Russia, including one of "common" area of freedom and justice.
 The Kremlin is very good to pretend that idealism.
 Its control on Eastern Europe always imposed on the basis of friendship "and" treaties, the Soviet invasions Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968 were missions "fraternales".
 But we will have to see how Putin abuses of this area "common": the brutal treatment to the Chechens, the employer Mikhail Khodorkovsky in prison, the harassment of the NGO's, false accusations against the colideresa the Orange Revolution last year, yuliya Tymoshenko, by Russian military prosecutors.
 If Europeans take seriously their common space for human rights and freedom, they must recognise that these values are not shared by officials of the Kremlin calculadores Putin.
 The same applies when we consider Russia as an ally in the fight against terrorism.
 Is it conceivable that the land of "red terror", with countless crimes without punishment of the Soviet era, and that leads traces of blood from Lithuania to the Caucasus, will help to stop a reliable threats to world of Iran and North Korea?
 It seems likely that the minds of the Kremlin cold simply will exploit every crisis as an opportunity to increase their destructive power and influence.
 For decades, in my region of Europe was left to the mercy of evil.
 Therefore, I cannot stay silent while Europe is blindly towards a new appeasement.
 We, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, we have learned from our heritage that behind every act of diplomatic Imperial Russia is an ambition.
 The Western Europeans, who have escaped this heritage, should listen to our warnings.
 The dependence on Russia, even if his face today is the so-called "charismatic" Gerhard schroeder- only lead to the abyss.
 The bullets and the votes of Iraq
 When the Iraq war began in 2003, the Bush administration was very ambitious plans: as in Germany and Japan after 1945, stipulated a long occupation and peaceful, during which the growing oil production would ensure prosperity increasing as a construyeran a democratic structures.
 The Constitution would be a liberal basis, even posmoderna, with everything and the guarantee of 25% of the curules of Parliament for women.
 In Iraq today there is peace and prosperity.
 The Constitution that will be put to the vote on 15 October including this rule of 25%, but otherwise far from being liberal.
 The key provision (Article 2) that no law can contradict "the undisputed rules of Islam" violates the principle of parliamentary sovereignty and prevent the legislation to comply with international standards.
 For example, the age of sexual consent cannot be at the top of the nine years, because it was a wife Mohammed nine years.
 It follows that girls of nine years are also cells under criminal law and are subject to the maximum sentence for, say, to become another religion.
 More broadly, Shia can use this willingness to put their ayatolas above the elected Parliament, as in Iran, because they are only allowed to determine the "regulations" of Islam.
 Foreigners and the few liberal Iraqi Islamic mainly concerned with this provision, but the widespread opposition to the constitution of Sunnis is addressed to the exclusion of other provisions: "party Ba 'ath sadamista" of political life and the government and the federalists provisions which gives autonomy to the 18 provinces Iraqis and allow them to be combined to form regional governments.
 The rule of exclusion is a personal matter for the elite of Sunnis --incluyendo thousands of entrepreneurs, professionals, even artistas-- because, with few exceptions, all of them were members of the Ba ath. '
 In theory, the constitutional ban could be interpreted as applies only to future.
 In practice, however, now being implemented administrative rules for excluding the so-called "states of high-ranking" of the Ba 'ath of any kind of employment and governmental thousands have been affected.
 The Sunni would perhaps the federalist provisions applicable only if they were to the Kurds.
 You know that the alternative is not a return to centralism, but the secession of the three provinces of Kurdish majority of dahuk Arbil and, as sulaymaniyah to form an independent Kurdistan, with its own army (finance, the pesh merga) and oil production around Kirkuk - which has the second reservations in Iraq.
 The Sunni reject the same federalism to consider the Shias because Arab brothers who have always accepted the Sunni government in the past and will have to offer my congratulations to both accept less than their own government.
 That is what the new Constitution would allow us, because the Shiite majority in the southern provinces of --donde is the greater part of the oil reserves of iraq-- could create their own regional government.
 The usual style of the Middle East, the leaders Sunni disappointed and unhappy with the Constitution are now threatening to violence.
 But federalism is not why the Sunni Islamists who preach the supremacy lay their lethal attacks.
 The opposition is more fundamental: do not accept the principle of democratic government of the majority.
 Instead of looking for the government to restore the Sunni minority.
 For the Islamists, in any way deserve the Shiites, for the death apóstatas.
 A leader, moqtada Shiite Sadr, also strongly opposes the federalism.
 Their followers are illiterate, mostly Shiites, poorest of violence and the slums in Baghdad and other places which "mahdi militia" fought against the American troops in 2004, even when they were protecting the Shiites in the attacks of Sunnis.
 As priest very young which derives its authority of their father died --un Ayatollah of Iraq, who live populista--los ayatolas contempt for their ignorance and violence, oppose Sadr.
 Sadr cannot compete in any way with them as regards religious authority, so that Arab nationalist adopts a stance against them, remembering that the more often high priest Shiite, Ayatollah sistani, is not, persa Arab.
 Similarly, I remember his followers that the supreme Hakim, who led the Council to the Islamic revolution in Iraq and its militia "badr" were exiled subsidised in Iran and many of them have fought on the side of Iran in the long and painful war irán-iraq-- until the Americans' the brought back ".
 Sadr opposes the federalism because a regional government Shiite obedecería their enemies, sistani and the Supreme Council, and he says, would fall under the influence of Iran.
 To highlight its message, Sadr sent their men to attack the militia, badr successfully in Baghdad, where the mahdi are numerous, but without it in Najaf, where it is to odia Sadr for the destruction caused by the last year that the Americans --hasta massacred their men.
 It was a bad deal with Sadr as bandido; the simple arithmetic policy is now saying that it will probably be the central figure to decide the result of the vote that will take place in October on the Constitution.
 To reject it and forcing new elections to a constituent assembly, opponents need a majority of two thirds in at least three provinces.
 It is likely that the Sunni only win on two provinces, but if you Sadr ordering his followers of the slums of Baghdad to vote "no" together with local Sunnis, it could make ganaran in the capital those opposed to the Constitution, which would ensure its defeat.
 As hampón political Sadr, it is naturally prepared to sell.
 Last year, I sought for murder.
 Now it wants money as a statesman, recognition and humiliation, at least implicit, sistani and the Supreme Council.
 Could receive offers and perhaps negotiations have already begun.
 But some of the Shiites attacking with words and bullets have thousands of armed supporters and I think that we should offer bullets.
 The collapse of the secret police.
 As noted the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc gyurcsany, when a confession that his government was lying bred incited unrest, openness in the government is not something which will easily in the new democracies of Eastern Europe.
 Like the post-Communist Funk Hungary, Romania has fought to increase transparency and honesty in what was once one of the most closed societies in the world.
 While luchábamos secrecy, the continuous gave rise to an explosion of corruption and abuse of power.
 Finally, however, there was a real progress towards the frankness, recognised by the European Union when it gave the green light for Romania join the EU at the beginning of 2007.
 In addition to achieve what the EU considers "today a functioning market economy", was legal and political fundamental changes, which I myself supervisé as Minister of Justice, ranging from greater transparency and control of the funding of political parties until a shock of the judiciary.
 The judicial reforms, in turn, are helping to banish corruption.
 It recusaciones issued against former cabinet ministers and ministers in office, Members of Parliament, judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, police and customs officials and other servants, as well as managers of private companies.
 We also introduced new forms standardized for declarations of assets and financial interests on the part of anyone who has an official in the government, Parliament, and local public administration and the judicial system.
 The new statements are the more detailed in Europe and, more importantly, be made public.
 Romania's progress report is confirmed by a widespread at the beginning of this month, which shows that the citizens' access to information from the government in Eastern Europe today is equivalent to that of established democracies.
 In fact, the report, transparency and silence, carried out by the pro-justicia initiative of the open society (available in www.justiceinitiative.org) indicates that, in some way, the old democracies have something to learn from the new government in Romania: certain agencies were more sensitive to the requests for information that the citizens of other agencies comparable in France and Spain.
 Specifically, in Romania has responded to 60% of the requests presented, compared with the 31% in France and 24% in Spain.
 Other countries that have a good performance are Peru and Mexico, which adopted laws of freedom of information in 2002, shortly after that in Romania.
 However, to obtain access to sensitive information in democracies in transition is not always easy, and I cannot give an account of this in my previous job as a lawyer of human rights for the Helsinki Committee of Romania.
 Many times we had recourse to the Court to force a disclosure of information, referring to the Freedom of Information Act 2001 of Romania.
 For example, even when ganábamos a case which had to do with access to records of tapping authorised by the public prosecutor, the Prosecutor General simply unaware of the judicial order.
 Presentábamos civil action against the Public Prosecutor and the judge a fine imposed by every day that information was withheld.
 But only when capturamos the attention of the media was to divulgaron data - which papers detailing the amount of tapping authorised in the previous ten years, against whom and for how long.
 With its publication, Romania began to move away from its past dominated by the securitate.
 Today, within the government, I am aware that the sharing of information to the public is often difficult.
 But when it is necessary to implement reforms painful, there is no alternative.
 We could not have implemented the economic and political reforms that we valieron an income as a Member of the EU if we had not put our policies to public scrutiny, and accepted the greater public participation in the decision-making process that inevitably goes hand in hand with this openness.
 What is more, this has become a sine qua non of democratic government in the world.
 When America adopted its law on freedom of information in 1996, joined the exclusive company of Sweden and Finland.
 Today there are almost 65 countries with this type of legislation.
 In Romania, a law of those who fought for freedom of information made full use of it.
 As part of the study pro-justicia initiative, who requested information from the government of Romania will voluntarily offered the kind of disseminating information which would have been unthinkable only a few years ago.
 The defence ministry in Romania, for example, revealed the amount of staff of the armed forces who died in 2003, as well as the causes of death (including 13 suicides, two shootings and two deaths in fighting in Afghanistan).
 In the same way, we asked the Court of Bucharest to report on the number of judges disciplined since the beginning of 2000, even the arguments for any sanctions applied.
 The Court has altered the asked the Board of Governors of the judiciary, who gave a comprehensive answer: a list of four pages of all the judges, punished with details of the reasons and sanctions.
 This type of information is both a product as a driving force for the ongoing reform.
 It was always convenient for those in government, and yet there is a reluctance criticism concerning sensitive documents.
 But, in the former Communist bloc, the benefits which implied transparency have been undeniable.
 At the same time, the experience of Romania shows that the official secret continues to be a threat to the core values of the democratic governance, and that only the constant vigilance, both in established democracies such as the young, can prevent are transferred their limits.
 Save trees of life.
 Nobody can spend a day without using a product comes from a forest.
 To a greater extent than most people are aware, the paper, wrote that the water that comes out of our grifos, drugs, we sanan wood that builds houses and furniture, all originates in forests.
 Forests are the air we breathe fresh species and habitats are in danger.
 We also provide opportunities for recreational purposes, increasingly important in our complex world.
 Approximately 1.5 billion of poor people living in rural areas of the world depend on forests for basic needs as food and firewood.
 However, deforestation is continuing.
 Every year we lose 14,6 million hectares) (145.000 kms. square an area of forests, nearly four times the size of Switzerland.
 The forestry management irresponsible, highlighted by the bad regulation and application of the laws on the part of governments, and the markets that are premian illegal logging conspirando to put an end to the most valuable and forests threatened in the world.
 Once the forests are beginning to disappear, are usually produces a set of environmental, social and economic problems that affect all of us in any way.
 The island of Sumatra, in Indonesia, is a good example.
 Companies producing role of pulp and are doing a rampant destruction of forests and illegal containing the rich diversity of plants in the world.
 It is likely that in the way plants disappear still to discover, as well as the rhinoceros endangered species and the elephant Sumatra, and the orangután.
 When forests Sumatra disappear communities, full of people will have a little and without proper place to live a decent way of earning a living.
 Moreover, the distortion of the market caused by global trade in goods produced a cheap and illegal produces disadvantages for companies which demonstrate social responsibility.
 The developing countries are losing 15 billion per year, tax revenue due to illegal logging.
 To make matters worse, the demand for wood for reconstruction following the tsunami last year is intensifying the unsustainable demand that already exists on forests in Sumatra.
 Similar threats to forests are evident in the Amazon basin and in the Congo.
 The recent ecosystem assessment for the Millennium eem (UN) shows that the forests of these and other regions are critical in frank decline due to bad management, and continuing disappearing at least to take serious action.
 The information published without due regard for the government of Brazil indicates that the forests irreplaceable deforestation of the Amazon, due to factors such as the conversion of agricultural land, came to the 2.6 million hectares approve 26 (almost) kms. Square last year, taking the total area deforested Amazon to 17%.
 But the battle against deforestation is not lost.
 Various organisations, ambientalistas and businesses concerned about the state of the forests of the world are joining forces to reverse the reforestation and improve the management of forests.
 For example, the World Nature Fund, (WWF) and the World Bank have helped the Government of Brazil to begin an initiative which created over 17 million hectares 179.000 (new) kms. square of protected forest areas, such as national parks.
 The alliance between the WWF and the World Bank also gave rise to the associated with this initiative to create a trust fund in perpetuity to administer these protected areas.
 Similarly, a summit meeting between the governments of the countries of the Mediterranean Congo resulted in an extraordinary cross-border cooperation on conservation and responsible management of forests.
 In turn, this was an initiative of USD 53 million of the US State Department to promote conservation of Congo forestry.
 Since the rulers to come together for the first time in 1999, 3.5 million hectares of more 33.700 (new) kms. square protected areas have been created in the Congo Basin.
 However, given the effects of the Asian tsunami of December, the weight of the evidence provided by the eem deforestation and statistics in regions of forest of key importance, our efforts must continue.
 The World Bank and the WWF recently undertook to unite in an effort to help reduce the rate of deforestation global 10% by the year 2010, and work with the other institutions of the public and private sectors for achieving the ambitious objectives of forestry conservation.
 Studies show that the WWF if the forests of the world fall into a combination of uses and types (which includes areas protected forests, commercial handled responsibly and landscapes boscosos recovered) can we respond to the needs of global forest products, at the same time preserving important social and environmental resources for the foreseeable future.
 The leaders of the governments, businesses and organisations in civil society must play its role to make the vision.
 What are the fanatics Saudi?
 The terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia many challenged not only the prospects for survival of the ruling of the sauds home, but ask if the UK is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive.
 In a way, it seems that Saudi society has been a torrent of violent fanaticism which is inspired by the extreme religious orthodoxy.
 The fact that 15 of the 19 kidnappers of the attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States were Saudi cristalizó vision of a long-standing that sees the united as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance.
 In some ways, this perception is accurate, but it cannot be applied to the general public Arabia.
 On the contrary, it would be a big mistake to believe that the fanatical fundamentalism defined completely attitudes towards Saudi religion.
 Between 2001 and 2003, I was part of a team, which presents a comprehensive study of the values in Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt and Jordan.
 Our results offer a remarkably nuanced Saudi image of attitudes.
 Respondents in comparison with other countries in the Middle East, the Saudi people were in general, less religious and attitudes towards democracy and the forced marriages also indicate a moderate underlying aware.
 It is clear that in the four countries religiosity is widespread phenomenon: more than 90% of those surveyed said to believe in God, in life after the death, and heaven and hell.
 But the Saudi people seem to be less religious than their fellow Muslim faith.
 The sixties and two per cent of the Saudis are described as religious, in comparison with the 82% of the Iranians, 85% of the Jordanians and 98% of the Egyptians.
 The Americans also seem to be much more religious than the Saudis, with a describiéndose 81% of them as such.
 Part of this variation can be explained by the differences between nations in terms of what it means to be religious.
 For example, the Americans can define the religiosity differently from the people of the Middle East, with perhaps a minor accession to the religious beliefs that as usual in Islamic countries.
 This could also partly explain the differences between the Muslim countries.
 But the gap between what the Saudi religiosity defined as, on the one hand, and the definition of the Iranian Jordanians, Egyptians and, on the other, is so great that it calls into question the predominant perception that Saudi Arabia is a highly conservative religious and society.
 In fact, actions speak more than words: only 28% of the Saudi said participate in services religious weekly, compared to 27% of the Iranians, 44% of the Jordanians, 42% of the Egyptians and 45% of the Americans.
 Well, if these results are moving in the opposite direction to the perceptions about the Saudi popular culture, are those who seem less surprising.
 Long sociologists religion have argued that, in an atmosphere of religious or monolithic when religious institutions are closely linked to the state it is declining, the general public of religiosity.
 It makes sense to think that when the state authorities are compulsory strict codes of conduct, people tend to rebel and away from religious institutions officially sanctioned.
 Therefore, it is not surprising that the Egyptians and Jordanians, living in countries where the state is not obliged to exercise more compassion, that the Iranian religious or Saudi, who face a local policy "virtuous" backed by the state.
 Even on the subject of marriage Saudi surprisingly many Liberal views expressed.
 Respondents were divided for almost equal parties in the question on the forced marriages, with almost half support the idea that the marriage must be based on the consent of the parents, while 48% preferred to love as the basis of marriage.
 Given the well-established and gender segregation on the dominance of the parents, this result seems reveal a strong desire for greater freedom of choice in individual which has traditionally been a decision that it takes the family.
 Finally, the Saudis are enthusiastic supporters of democracy, be contravening the image of conservatism Saudi people again.
 The Saudi surveyed, 58% found democracy as the best form of government, 23% did not agree, and 18% expressed no opinion.
 The overwhelming support for democracy in a country which does not have a history and secular nationalist seems somewhat contrary to what might be intuir.
 In fact, the support for democracy is in keeping with a number of other attitudes are liberal in Saudi Arabia.
 The advocates of democracy tend to be less religious, more secular, more tolerant towards others, more critical of the performance of the public sector and to be more concerned about the western cultural invasion.
 Beyond the data of the study, history has shown that the liberal ideas, become more popular when a despotic monarch governs the people in alliance with a "establishment religious".
 At the end of the nineteenth century arose in the otomana Syria an incredible liberal, in response to the sultán despotism religious abdulhamid.
 At the same time, appeared in Iran a secular movement and in favour of the anticlerical constitutionalism, a reaction to the alliance between the shahs quajar absolutist and the institucionalidad religious.
 In view of the similarities between these historical precedent and conditions in Saudi Arabia, we should not rule out the possibility of a reform.
 Now the data of the studies also suggest that it would not be surprising to see the Saudi demanding a policy that is more transparent and less interventionist a religion.
 The European life.
 At the end of the nineteenth century, Europe basically saw Asia as a source of inspiration for their artists or a source of imperial ambition.
 The Asian, for its part, to see Europe as a model of modernity, as in Japan, meiji or a barometer of decline, as in China.
 A century later, the economic miracle Japanese was transformed the image of at least a small part of Asia in the eyes of Europe in a place of rapid technological progress and industrial.
 Now, in the early years of the 21st century, the perception of Europe in Asia and Europe is changing dramatically in Asia, at a time when the economies of Asia are booming while the European Union is atollada in a crisis of identity and confidence.
 Several Asian leading, as the former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, today are warning that if Europeans continue with its present course, Europe will quickly irrelevant to everything except for tourism and the exclusive property.
 A prominent employer Chinese dividing their time between Hong Kong and London was even more specific.
 At a meeting of senior political leaders and private entrepreneurs in Paris a few weeks ago, said: "you Europeans are becoming a third world country, spend time discussing issues wrong - the Constitution, the welfare state, the crisis of the pensiones- systematically, and offer the wrong answers to the questions posed."
 The visions that Europeans have of Asia in general, and China in particular, are more complex and adaptation to a lucid somewhere between the new competitor and respected the rejection and purely ideological.
 In May, 1968 in France, students, or some of them, so that less took to the streets to invent a new world dreamed of China, a Maoist China in the middle of the cultural revolution and brutal nonsense.
 Its obsession both absurd and baroque was the product of ignorance of the crimes of Mao as the result of boredom in a prosperous society where unemployment virtually did not exist.
 Today, however, their heirs openly criticise the capitalist model Asia.
 Yesterday, China was a North anticapitalista for the revolutionary utopian; today it has become an ultra-liberal nemesis for a new generation of reactionary utopian -- the defenders of the status quo in Europe.
 The students who demonstrated in the streets of Paris recently do not want to become as the Chinese or Indian; reject the logic of globalisation and refuse to renounce guarantees both social cost win.
 The European economic elites perceive China and India so very different.
 We are fully aware that his vision of post-colonial slightly nostálgica these countries as major export markets and profound reservorios of cheap labour is lapses.
 China and India became genuine competitors who deserve respect, if not simple admiration.
 The quality, the costs of delivery times and in the automotive industry, for example, are reaching the European level.
 Europe retains an advantage in terms of pure science, as in the pharmaceutical industry, but the world class of companies that are emerging, particularly in India, each time they are in a better position to recruit graduates of technology and Harvard, while, at the same time, the low labour costs and, therefore, the global competitiveness.
 Unfortunately, although the leaders recognise the Asian challenge, failed to use it as a test of reality in the process of globalisation irresistible and also as a call to arms in social and economic terms.
 To tell the truth, it would be fair to say that the European politicians, with a few exceptions, as Tony Blair, took in adjusting their vision of the world in accordance with the revolutionary pace of change in Asia.
 Caught between its lack of long-term strategic vision and its obsession with short-term interests, the political leaders of Europe largely failed to win the respect of their peers, unlike Asian companies, which would be much better to the Asian eyes.
 Of course, in a continent that virtually could not bury its past and close the door to the ghosts nationalists, the European Union is often viewed by the Asian as a model of reconciliation, peace and prosperity.
 But if the performance of declining, Europe still does sobreviviría this perception?
 Perhaps the Asian would consider the European model as a policy of Venice version - a place to visit with nostalgia for his glory and admiration for their quality almost museum.
 The red and the blue
 The change of Condoleezza Rice by Secretary of State Colin Powell on the state of the US shows that the recent presidential election in that country still has a major impact.
 But we understand what it says on the United States election is important not only for the Americans, but also to the world.
 The presidential vote of this year is proof that the American democracy is in good health, but that some things could improve.
 Contrary to what happened in the elections in 2000, when President Bush lost the popular vote and the vote just won in the electoral college, this time by triumphed 3.5 million votes.
 Although some still resentidos democrats, we cannot seriously question the legitimacy of the victory of the Bush administration.
 The United States are very divided on Member States and blue Rouge (Republicans) (democrats).
 If 100,000 votes had been different in the Ohio State red, John Kerry would be the President (albeit with popular vote minority).
 The electoral college was included in the Constitution of the United States to protect the small States in a federal system, but now means that political campaigns mainly revolve around a dozen countries where public opinion is very divided.
 On a more fundamental level, choose Presidents without a majority of people is something improper.
 It is therefore time to hold a serious debate for amending the Constitution in order to abolish the electoral college.
 Some observers also complain of rhetoric and divisive that characterised the propaganda campaign.
 But this must be seen from a historical perspective.
 At the time of the founding fathers, the newspapers were extremely partial and George Washington I consternaba the hardness of the political language.
 For a large part of its early years -- not speak of the civil war and the reconstruction of the country was — as divided as it is now raging, and what the rhetoric of closed reflected the campaign of competition.
 At the same time, despite the negative propaganda on both sides, the three televised debates at national level raised important issues in a format seriously and had a big audience.
 In general, it is likely that a President with a growing economy is re-election.
 In this respect, what is striking in the case of Bush was so low that was its majority.
 This is largely due to the unpopularity of the war in Iraq.
 Kerry tried to make war, the low rate of job creation, the inadequate health care and reducing taxes Bush senior income groups of the central themes of his campaign, but some observers have never felt that this was a clear message.
 Bush retorted with concerns about security in the fight against terrorism and the cultural populism on issues such as the marriage between homosexuals and the right to abortion.
 In the end, the security and economic populism cultural conquered them to populism.
 The interpretation of the choice has been influenced by exit polls in which they asked the voters (after having voted) what issues are cared for more.
 The majority (22%) "replied that the moral values", in comparison with the 20% which referred to the economy and 19% mentioned terrorism.
 The conservative social interpret this as it was they who won the election for Bush and its agenda must prevail in the next period of President.
 But a survey by Pew lifted a week after the election indicated that category "moral values" covered a wide range of issues as well as the right to abortion and homosexual marriage between.
 In fact, surveys show that 25% of the population supports and homosexual marriage between 35% in favour of unions for homosexual couples of civil law (the position defended by Kerry).
 However, for the 37% which opposes these marriages, especially in the centre of the country, the red issue helped to mobilise the supporters of Bush to vote.
 More important question is whether the US are hopelessly divided.
 The map of electoral red and blue has led to jokes cartoons and on the Internet on the secession of the two shores of the blue red centre of the country.
 Some would call "costopía".
 But the division is not very clear.
 Many states in both sides are won by scarce margins, and if we colorea at the map counties and not of States, a large part of the country is quite morado.
 Cities face suburbs and rural areas is a better description that coasts against centre.
 In fact, the opinion polls show that the majority of Americans are concentrated in the centre of the political spectrum moderate and not in the two extremes.
 But the political elites, as the militants of parties and the members of Congress, tend to be more extreme that the public.
 The principle that seems disconcerting, because the Centre should have incentives to get rich in votes.
 But many members of Congress represent districts that are safe for their parties and the threat to his re-election is in the primary, dominated by the wings more activists and extremist parties.
 This trend is reinforced by the growth of the cable, which attracts viewers through programmes controversiales "and" infotenimiento Internet bloggers that engage in polemics ferocious without any editorial filter.
 A reform to change the borders of the electoral districts in order to make them more competitive help to alleviate the problem, but a few of the Members in office would make for changes which could increase the risk of defeat.
 The result of the closed indicates that Bush won a mandate for change less than he seems to believe.
 Given the difficult problems of foreign policy, fiscal and social facing, would do well to voltear towards the centre in place to reconcile its conservative basis, but it is still not clear whether the ruling of the policy of convictions or the pragmatism.
 How wriggle out of the habit of oil
 Chancellor Angela Merkel became the treatment of climate change on a high priority on the agenda of Germany for their presidencies of the EU and of the G8, starting in January.
 I have here a concrete proposal, sufficiently general for world leaders to consider and accept, and clear enough to understand the other governments and businesses: no more than set a date, at the next G8 summit, from which the cars fed to oil can no longer move more in the major industrialised countries.
 A decision of this nature would have an economic impact and geopolitical highly positive.
 The real cause of the concerns today in the field of energy is not the fall in world currency reserves of oil, but rather that the production of oil internal big consumers -europa, America and China - will lapse at the moment with the growing demand sature Asian market.
 The available reserves they will focus increasingly in the Middle East, simply because the supply in the rest of the regions will run out earlier.
 What is more, the main exporters of oil are not prepared to subordinate their policies of investment to the requirements of the market.
 Saudi Arabia is trying to manage its oil production independently, while Iran scares potential investors with its bureaucratic obstacles and corruption.
 Iraq is suffering from a lack of security and foreign investors in Russia are impediments at every turn.
 These four Member States have half the world's oil reserves verified and two-thirds of the potentially could be exported.
 All this, not the cost of production, is the central right of high oil prices and the fights for closing oil contracts in Central Asia and Africa.
 Believing that high oil prices are good use because the environment is ignoring some basic data of international politics.
 First, in many of the poorest African and Asian countries, oil imports represent a significantly higher proportion of national expenditure in the industrialised countries, which means that economic growth and social development are in danger, at the same time facing new debt crisis.
 The incomes of the production of oil hampering the reforms in the main exporters.
 Thanks to its strength, lubricada financial regimes such as those in Venezuela and Iran are increasingly less restricted by the international rules.
 The newcomers to the universe of nations consumers, as is the case with China imitate the old habits of the West, with its long history of industrialised overlook human rights abuses in order to ensure lucrative deals with authoritarian regimes and rich in oil.
 The only heavyweights political and economic world, the main industrialised countries that remain, by far the largest consumers of hydrocarbons, can initiate a change at global level.
 The change must begin with the transport sector, which represents more than half of the current oil consumption - a proportion will probably increase in the future.
 Therefore, the G8 countries should reach agreement to prevent circulate all car fed oil 2025 onwards.
 This decision would point out not against individual mobility, but against the disipación a scarce resource that is needed most urgently to produce plastics.
 Political leaders should not give priority to no technology in particular.
 What is more, should offer the automotive industry incentives to develop alternative technologies which are based on biomass, hydrogen and fuel until natural gas for a transitional period.
 The countries leaders from a political point of view, to give them the internal industries as a collateral benefit, a leading position in the field of energy technology, ensuring future markets.
 If the expected, the significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions could bring lead the turning point in the necessary international policies in the field of climate change.
 But also comes into play: our economic development cure "addiction to oil" I would more oil to the poorest and least developed countries, recently industrialised countries, while at the same time forzaría the fall in prices and get rid of the geopolitical competition for energy.
 From a geopolitical point of view, the benefits would be equally obvious, as it would reduce markedly the capacity of the main exporters of oil to hold the industrialised countries.
 This could increase the negotiating power of the international community in the Middle East, and could strengthen the social forces in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia, which seriously want to promote political and economic reform from within.
 As a country technologically advanced and one of the main producers of cars, Germany is in a position to put forward an initiative of this nature.
 Merkel, which has a PhD in physical and started his career policy still environment minister in 1995 (chairing the first conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), can have more credibility in dealing with this issue that any of its members of the EU and of the G8.
 The time has arrived shows a courageous leadership.
 The myth of trade and aid
 Trade and aid have become words fashionable at international level.
 Greater assistance (including the cancellation of debt) and greater access to the markets of rich countries to products from poor countries seem to be at the top of the global agenda.
 In fact, the debate today is not about what to do, but how do and do so quickly.
 All this is in clear lose the lessons of the past five decades of economic development.
 Among the most important points out that economic development is largely in the hands of poor nations themselves.
 The countries that have been successful in the recent past have obtained through their own efforts.
 The aid and access to the market rarely have played a critical role.
 We consider that a country has preferential and free access to the markets of its large neighbour, which is also the most powerful economy in the world.
 On the other hand suppose that this country can send millions of its citizens to work on the other side of the border, that is a huge volume of investment and is completely integrated production chains international.
 Furthermore, the banking system of the country supports the willingness shown by its neighbour rich to serve as a lender of last resort.
 Globalisation cannot be true, are better?
 Now consider a second country.
 This is facing a trade embargo the largest market in the world, should not receive any kind of foreign aid and assistance to the West, is excluded from international organisations such as the WTO and is being prevented from borrowing the IMF and the World Bank.
 If these disadvantages external were not sufficiently debilitating economy, this also has its own high obstacles to trade (such as international trade of state, import tariffs and quantitative restrictions).
 As the reader be guessed, these countries are real: Mexico and Vietnam.
 Mexico 3,000 miles shares a border with the United States, which gives not only the privileged access to labour markets and goods, but also the ease of use to the Treasury funds of the US - as was demonstrated in the crisis of the weight of 1995).
 In contrast, United States held a trade embargo against Vietnam until 1994, 1995 until established diplomatic relations and for years after that gave no treatment most favoured nation to imports of that country.
 Vietnam remains outside the WTO.
 Now consider their economic performance.
 Since the NAFTA agreement was signed in December 1992, the economy of Mexico has grown to an average annual rate of just 1% in per capita terms.
 This is not only very below the level of the Asian economic superstars; it is also a fraction of own growth of Mexico over the decades that antecedieron the debt crisis of 1982 (1.0% annual between 1960 and 1981).
 However, Vietnam grew at an annual rate of 5.6% per capita between the start of their economic reforms in 1988 and the establishment of diplomatic relations with the US in 1995, and since then it has been growing at a brisk pace of 4.5%.
 In Vietnam was a dramatic reduction in poverty in Mexico, while the real wage fell.
 Both countries have experienced marked increases in international trade and investment, but the situation is completely different as more important: to raise levels of life, particularly in the poorest countries.
 These examples show is that internal efforts triumph on anything in order to determine the economic fortune of a country.
 All the opportunities which the market gave us the Mexico were not able to counteract the consequences of the mistakes of internal policy, especially the inability to reverse the appreciation of the real rate of the weight and extend the rest of the economy improvements in productivity reached in a limited range of activities of exports.
 What matters most is whether a country takes the right strategy for growth.
 Without any of the benefits of Mexico, concentrated in Vietnam was a strategy to diversify its economy and improve the productive capacity of their internal suppliers.
 The experiences of the post-war broader support the conclusion that the internal policies are the most important.
 South Korea left at the beginning of the 1960s, not when the external assistance was at its height, but when it was withdrawing gradually.
 Taiwan is not received external aid or preferential access to markets.
 China and India, the two superstars economic success today, have largely through sui generis reform efforts.
 It is tempting to attribute the African --botswana rare successes and mauricio-- to external demand for their exports (diamonds and clothes, respectively), but that is only part of the story.
 Of course both countries would be considerably more poor without access to foreign markets.
 But, as in other cases, the successful development of what distinguishes the advantages are not external possess, but its ability to exploit them.
 See what other countries have done with their natural resources.
 The word 'diamond "hardly evokes images of peace and prosperity in Sierra Leone.
 Similarly, a few of the areas of elaboradoras exports which are proliferating in the world have achieved the results which we are witnessing in Mauritius.
 None of this absuelve rich countries of its responsibility to help.
 Could make the world a cosy less corrupt dictators were punished - just for example, more financial and sharing information not recognising international contracts to be signed.
 Also, increasing the number of workers from poor countries to which they can work in rich countries and give greater scope for policies aimed at growth through the relaxation of the rules of the WTO and the conditions of the US would have a greater impact of long-term development.
 It is clear that extend access to markets and increase the aid constitute the most productive use of political capital valuable in the north.
 The development must not concentrate on trade and aid but to improve the environment policy in poor countries.
 Now what and who is dependent?
 If the great economist Argentine Raul prebisch lived now, is certainly ask if the world is the other way round.
 His theory of the "dependence", which took a great deal of influence, argued that if the poor countries relied too of the export of primary products never reach the necessary depth industrial to sustain an accelerated growth.
 It empantanarían, instead, in a cycle of falling prices of raw materials at a global level and a participation ever lower income.
 The policy response, prebisch favourite of protectionism, was disastrous for the many African and Latin American countries made that case.
 But the fact is that for many years, prebisch seemed to have predicted rightly trends long-term prices of primary products.
 The ruthless progress in agriculture and the extraction of resources pushed to the low prices of raw materials, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s.
 With few exceptions, the countries that are concentrated in the export of these products desempeños had very poor, while many Asian countries with few resources are adelantaron.
 Today, however, as the Asian giants, India and China, are joining the global economy, the price of wheat, oil, gold and almost all the other raw materials are increasing so explosive.
 Although there will always be cycles were punished - just example oil prices fall, probably before they start to elevarse-- the long-term trend of many primary products will clearly upwards for some time.
 What many negotiators trade and other person in charge of designing policies do not seem to be acknowledged, although still prebisch would have realised immediately is that these dramatic events have major implications for the overall balance of power.
 Indeed, perhaps no other aspect of economic globalization will raise greater challenges to the global leaders in the coming decades.
 There are many questions.
 Are you prepared to rich countries today in an era of codependencia they both need raw materials as developing countries need imports and industrial technology?
 Are you prepared to the inevitable flow of power and influence to the producers of raw materials as they do much richer?
 How will the two superpowers of world, China and the United States, the fact that there are regions exporters of primary products important in Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia, which are full of nation States badly trained?
 Some prophets autoconsagrados describing the problem as one of finite natural resources in which the world is falling raw materials without criticism at an alarming rate.
 Today, many support the theory of "hundred of hubbert" on the oil production, which maintains that we have reached the limits of the higher production capacity, are removed by wiping the wells and everything will worsen from now on.
 However, as the leading historian oil, give the prophets of the yergin, unfortunately have already stated at least four times that the world is falling without oil.
 Each time, the threat evaporated due to dramatic improvements in the technology.
 At the end of the nineteenth century, the extraction of oil dragar involved with mulas.
 No one will be surprised at the oil wells 3,000 metres under the seabed.
 There have been improvements similar in all sectors of the mining of metals and agriculture.
 No, the world is not about to stay without raw materials.
 What happens, however, is that the integration of 2.5 billion people (nothing more China and India) to the global economy is producing a change in the demand that safety will be much greater upwards pressure on prices of raw materials which can compensate for any technological advance.
 That, at least during the next 50 to 75 years, and perhaps to humans from mining operations on Mars sometime over the centuries to come, prices will provide many natural resources.
 The political world are destabilised by the rebalancing of global economic power to be able to demonstrate this?
 The first world war, of course, broke out in part by the German concern that the other colonial powers had a very high proportion of supply global oil and raw materials.
 Similarly, in the second world war Japan feared for the stability of its cope abroad of oil and other natural resources.
 How will similar tensions between China, with its lack of resources - and even where the shortage of water is a probema) and the West?
 Fortunately, this does not seem likely that, at the moment, especially given the dry and pragmatic approach of the Chinese leaders in relation to their problems of resources.
 The Chinese are looking towards regions such as Africa in the hope of finding stable trading partners.
 Do not share the political proselytism of the Americans, who not only want to trade with the exporters of raw materials, but also make them.
 On the other hand, there are also the American leaders who speak to us will be self-sufficient in its energy cope.
 But that is in essence a joke: complacent with themselves, perhaps, but never self-sufficient.
 It is understandable that a large part of the Arab world to consider the invasion of Iraq as the cornerstone of the genuine strategy of the USA in order to ensure a stable supply of energy.
 If they are right, it is to be hoped that the United States has a plan B.
 Meanwhile, the prices of raw materials and which will now oil exporters are the greatest responsibility for the enormous trade deficit of the United States.
 Perhaps the American strategy is now trying to deberle both countries exporters of raw materials that they have to rely on that America is happy.
 That is something that prebisch would never have anticipated.
 The option of hardliners in Iran.
 It is likely that the choice of the mayor of hardliners in Teheran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to be the next President of Iran deteriorating relations with the West and the country's international isolation.
 However, in terms of internal, it is likely that the Islamic regime would be better than if there had been a result more moderate.
 It is clear that Ahmadinejad is a real basis of support.
 But that has been presented as a populist, who has spoken to help the poor, which has condemned the functioning of government and which has acted as a candidate opposition is almost irrelevant: it was the one chosen by the regime and the final received official aid even against other candidates hard line.
 The regime has played their letters brilliantly.
 It turned hashemi Rafsanjani, slightly more pragmatic and that he did not agree with certain current policies, in the shape of "and" system to your own man in the rebel.
 Thus, the government used against the feelings of the system for revitalizing its command.
 The fact that the last President Khatami, Muhammad, supported the reformist movement --si well so timid and ultimately failed nada-- simply highlights the way in which the rulers voltearon absolute as the political situation.
 Ahmadinejad is a representative of the youngest activists of the revolution against the Shah of a quarter of a century ago.
 Was directly involved in the catch of hostages in Iran, although the Americans to what extent is something debatible.
 The most worrying of all is that is close to the two main groups representing the most extremist elements of Iran: the body of the Islamic revolutionary guard and the organisation basij.
 The first is an army parallel in favour of the regime; the second is an organisation that intimida opponents and to those seeking a more open society.
 However, the concerns that an even more radical leadership has taken the lead in Iran to mitigate by two factors.
 First, it is likely that Ahmadinejad concentrates on internal affairs, to try to -- it is not clear how éxito-- improve the living standards of the Iranian poorer.
 Secondly, the same group has had the control since the revolution will manage the ideological and foreign policy.
 The President has fewer powers than it seems, in particular overshadowed by the supreme guide, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
 However, the choice of Ahmadinejad absolutely clarifies the challenge that Iran poses to western policy and to the stability of the Middle East.
 Firstly, it sends a � by the most extremist elements of Iran and customers in the country --hezbollah terrorists in Lebanon, Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Palestine and several groups peque you � operating against Iraq, Saudi Arabia and other countries that have árabes-- green light to launch attacks.
 It is likely that assuming that Iran will support any thing to do.
 Towards outside Iran has often been relatively cautious, but to covert level has been the most important sponsor of terrorism at global level.
 Sometimes certain Iranian officials can be acting on their own to organise and coordinate operations that are more specific now feel free to do so.
 In addition, the programme supports Ahmadinejad openly Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.
 The majority of the Iranian political --al less those to which the government allows them to operate abiertamente-- support the programme, but they are in favour of a more discreet and cautious approach.
 Rafsanjani, for example, preferred to build better economic relations with the West to move forward with the nuclear front.
 If it is a President Ahmadinejad of Iran is more likely to use nuclear weapons of aventurada way.
 That is not to say that the detonaría but rather that the purposes of diplomatic use blackmail, causing threats at crisis.
 Since the Iraqi leaders proclaim daily its desire to wipe Israel off the map and fight against the US (Ahmadinejad pisoteó a photograph of the American flag when it went to vote), the risk of a confrontation has increased.
 Finally, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will be more determined to subvert the stability of Iraq and its victory will encourage the extremist and radical Iranian officials who are in this country.
 Iran is already sending many players to Iraq and supporting customers who want to turn it into a clone.
 The Iraqi people, including the Shia Muslims - which practise the same version of Islam that the iraníes-- generally reject this interference.
 It is likely that a position more militant Iran increase the friction with Iraq and to generate more violence anti-American in this place.
 In short, the election result of Iran is dangerous, but do so is destabilising the actions of Ahmadinejad and will depend on the degree of power which give Khamenei.
 In addition, a deal with Iran as openly extremist --radical even for employers hard line of régimen-- will pose a challenge not only for us but also for Europe.
 Ͽ European countries will try to pretend that the rhetoric of the militant and provocations Ahmadinejad do not matter and that it will be possible to find a diplomatic solution to Iran ’ s nuclear ambitions?
 It would have been easy to maintain Rafsanjani with a real agreement or a farce of cooperation.
 But with Ahmadinejad will require a high level of appeasement that even the slightest diplomatic process can continue.
 Some Iranian exiles reformers and welcome the choice of Ahmadinejad, because they claim that his administration will see the real face of the regime and will erase the Western hopes to reach an agreement.
 However, it can also represent the success of the regime in cooptar dissatisfaction with a quarter of a century of Islamic government.
 Whatever the outcome, the West to the triumph of Ahmadinejad mean that everything that has to do with Iran will claentar even more.
 To take away from the poor to the rich
 President Bush seems determined to ruin the US budget for the coming years.
 When President Bush took office, it was possible to a future of budgetary surpluses virtually uninterrupted.
 Today, through a combination of tax concessions Republicans, driven by a slowdown in the economy, desinfle bubble of the stock market and a massive increase in expenditure on defence, the horizon of taxation is dominated by enormous deficits.
 Things are worse, since the Bush administration and Congress dominated by republicans are preparing a deepening of the fiscal chaos.
 The damage that will probably to weaken us instability and will add to the global economy.
 Traditionally, the Republican Party American preferred balanced budgets.
 This changed with the Reagan administration, when the republicans Conservatives have furthered the tax cuts, even at the expense of the emergence of large budget deficits.
 The President Reagan told us that could enjoy the people of tax concessions, an increase in military and the continuation of their favourite spending programmes, all at the same time.
 It is not surprising that the result was a vast number of budget deficits which took years repair.
 Both President George Bush senior as Bill Clinton had to raise taxes to fix the chaos of the Reagan era.
 These high taxation probably contributed to the defeat of President Bush at the hands of Father Bill Clinton in 1992.
 And yet, bravely Clinton decided to complete the process of restoring the balance of taxation, partly in order to safeguard the financing of the long-term programme of retirement of social security.
 When the Clinton left office in the year 2000, the budgetary situation was the best for decades.
 Then came the President George Bush jr. again to play the role it played Reagan: large sales tax, a huge increase in military expenditure and expansion or even a continuation of the popular spending programmes.
 The result was a foregone conclusion.
 In January 2001, were cast the budget for the years 2002-2011 cumulative result would have a surplus of $5.6 trillion dollars.
 In 2002, these surpluses planned had gone.
 In view of the change in the economic conditions and the shadow of a war in Iraq, might be expected that the Bush administration and Congress dominated by republicans were cautious when proposing new tax cuts.
 But no, its top priority is put into effect new fiscal reductions which mainly benefit the rich.
 At the same time, the government is proposing large increases in the military expenditure.
 With the presidential election of November 2004 on the horizon, we can be sure that there will be no significant cuts in spending programmes not military.
 So it seems that budget deficits mass came to stay.
 If the internal expenditure remains constant simply as a fraction of national income, the budgetary cumulative result for the next ten years will be combined a deficit of $1.5 trillion.
 But it may be that this figure is optimistic, because that will probably not properly included the cost of a possible war in Iraq, or another round of tax concessions or the risks of higher interest rates in the coming years.
 Why Republicans worry so little all this chaos?
 Some Republicans care more lowering taxes rich than almost anything else.
 Others believe that the deficits force to make substantial cuts in spending internal government, thereby reducing the size of the State, which is their wish most dear.
 The problem with this last point of view is that the majority of those who pay taxes like the internal support programmes and not very easily implement significant cuts in spending.
 A further question is why the worrying us vote for such policies, when they should know that only will cause problems.
 A response is that many voters do not see the imminent budgetary problems.
 A better response is that the majority of Americans not voted in these policies.
 The turnout at the elections in 2002 was only 40% of whom only half supported the Republicans, or nearly 20% of the eligible voters.
 Of course, the prospects are not to be so black.
 It can prevent war in Iraq.
 The proposed tax cuts can reject or leave.
 But predigo large budget deficits in the coming years and a growing sense of unease inside and outside of the US about its macroeconomic situation.
 Investors may decide to stop funding the US budget deficits and current-account in favourable terms.
 The dollar can be stepped up and weaken the concerns about inflation.
 This may make us who devise policies have less and less confidence be flexible in its replies to the economic shocks.
 It is likely that the poor, both within and outside of the US, suffer the worst part, when President Bush and the Congress told the American people and the world that, due to the large budget deficits, there is not enough money to deal with the problems of poverty, health and education.
 Unless the Americans ordinary conscience take these risks of tax, the rich will be left with another gift of billions of dollars, while the country and the world suffer the consequences of the sad for many years to come.
 The lessons of fiscal imprudence of United States
 George W. Bush has done more to the ruin of the economic policy of the US that no other President of the American history, even going beyond its mentor, Ronald Reagan.
 In just three years in power, has destroyed a fragile political consensus which had been necessary for building a decade, and that could take another decade rebuild.
 In so doing, Bush has put at risk the social stability and the long-term economic strength of the United States.
 Since the long-term budgetary challenges that America is so bad way of handling errors are not exclusive, tax us provide important lessons for other countries.
 The main problem with fiscal policy is that politicians can popular temporarily to reduce taxes and increase public expenditure, generating a huge public debt and leaving its payment for the future.
 This trick may last for a few years, but the sooner rather than later défitits budget and the growing public debt painful force to take steps backwards in this policy.
 However, a political cynical can achieve its re-election and perhaps even be withdrawn when exploits the crisis.
 One could imagine that after hundreds of similar episodes of fiscal irresponsibility throughout the world in the past decades, the voters would be allergic to tricks like these.
 However, the new Bush is doing, buying popularity to distribute massive reductions in taxation, while at the same time increasing military spending and even increased spending on education and health.
 The result is a deficit equivalent to more than 5% of GDP.
 What is worse is that the financial perspectives of long-term United States were already problematic before Bush began its irresponsible policies.
 The US population is ageing, so that there will be a radical increase in the costs of health and pension systems.
 A careful calculation shows that it is likely that the income under future policies favoured by the Bush administration are inadequate in dozens of trillion dollars to finance the costs of public service pensions, health care and other expenses tax expected by the public.
 At some point in the future will be necessary, therefore, to increase dramatically the collection of taxes, drastically to reduce public spending, or both, to correct the actions of Bush.
 Why, then, supports the public these policies?
 Because I understand or little concern these consequences in the long term, even if it finally end up damaging the majority of Americans.
 For so-called richest taxpayers, are happy because received the main part of the tax reductions.
 Incredibly, 5% of the richest Americans taxpayers received almost half of sales of taxation, and clearly these rich taxpayers expect the other 95% (the middle class and poor) bear the greater part of the spending cuts and increases in taxes to be applied in the future.
 In the meantime, Bush has to convince many voters poor and middle class that must also be happy, without tell them that they will have to pay their small tax cuts courts with much greater in the future government services if policies of their administration persist in the long term.
 If the Americans were political memory, understand why we were already in this "roller coaster" tax once in the past 20 years.
 Ronald Reagan also came to power promising large tax reductions and significant increases in the military expenditure.
 The result was a huge deficit in the middle of the 1980s.
 Tax cuts made extremely popular Reagan and helped win the re-election in 1984.
 It was necessary for more than a decade (starting the second period of Reagan and following in periods of George Bush senior and Bill Clinton) in order to return to a budget surplus.
 Of course, this meant approving new tax increases, which it took the re-election George Bush senior and led to the 90 polarised political environment.
 It is almost certain that history is being repeated.
 Some right-wing ideologists of the Bush administration believe that the current fiscal deficits finally force to drastically reduce social spending of government.
 Programmes such as expect dismantle social security and medicare.
 But the American public strongly supports these social programmes.
 So the right-wing strategy to reduce taxes first to force to make cuts in social programmes, and then it will sooner or later be increased taxes.
 The Bush administration in others argue that the tax reductions are important for us to draw the recession.
 This argument is also wrong.
 The US economy could be recovered without tax cuts, and perhaps even more solid way.
 In any case, it is a great mistake to base the long-term fiscal policies in the business cycle in the short term.
 There are two vital lessons for other countries.
 The first is that the increasing deficits us sooner or later international restrict the power of the United States.
 The Americans supported the Iraq war not only because they had paid with an increase in taxes.
 When they get to the point of choosing between adventures abroad and higher taxes, it is far less likely to support expensive military operations abroad.
 In fact, the us deeply when the public should be split up the mess left by Bush tax.
 The second lesson is that countries should plan their budgets, taking into account the increase in tax costs of an ageing population.
 The budgetary conditions are rarely long-term nítidas for taxpayers or Parliament.
 We should demand that governments present budgetary assessments long-term together with their annual budgetary proposals, in order to reduce the tendency to short-term political manipulation in the budget.
 The US can serve as an early warning to other countries.
 The White House should give the rest of the same warning that the kings give viewers: "no" to try this in their homes.
 The policy in the stock market
 Many analysts economic and financial complain that the governments of the countries emerging markets too often manipulated their stock market and that they are more political than economic.
 Of course the tacit it seems that, on the contrary, a force of nature is Pristina economic values in the markets of the developed countries, and that, therefore, to predict its performance is as growth forecast of trees.
 This description of stock markets of developing countries is not wrong, but only partial, because it also applies to the markets of the developed countries.
 In fact, the best analysts know that predict the performance of the stock market of any country is in large measure to predict how the government wants to prosper investors in the political environment of the moment.
 Let us consider the stock market in the United States, the largest in the world by far.
 The general perception is that the government is in companies and that peace dividends resulting from investing in the stock market reflect the fundamental forces of a capitalist economy robust.
 This is one of the reasons for which the US are a magnet for investors throughout the world.
 But the dividends that make it so attractive to stock markets of the US reflect a delicate political balance.
 In particular, the rates of taxation affecting the actions have changed with the time as changing the political pressures.
 For example, during the Second World War, the political support to the government and the large fortunes declined considerably increased taxes on capital, profits of the dividends and the high incomes in general.
 When the second world war was a strong recovery of the great depression of the thirty, President Roosevelt and Congress agregaron a tax on the profits to ensure that excessive shareholders do not benefit too.
 In contrast, in 1980, when there were no war but the stock market was weak, American voters elected to Ronald Reagan, a man who right-wing too many people considered to be President.
 The obtuvo-recortes asked - and the tax on the profits of capital, the dividends and income.
 The political interference in the stock market is not confined to the tax on the profits of capital, the dividends and income.
 Taxes on ownership, consumption, imports and sales - all of whom pay corporations or indirectamente-pueden have a direct effect on the extended corporate profits and, therefore, on the stock market.
 It is no coincidence that all the places where flourish in the stock markets, governments must take care to ensure that the net profits corporate taxation is not destroyed.
 In fact, the policy on stock markets do not end with taxes.
 On the contrary, almost any activity of government has an impact on the corporate profits and, in turn, on the stock market.
 After the collapse of the stock market in 1929, the US Government suspended activities competition rules, to allow companies attract a power that monopólico elevara its value.
 This policy delayed the recovery of huge unemployment, but even that was able to control the political forces prepared in favour of support to the stock market.
 Similarly, one of the most important things that was President Reagan was destroyed much of the power that they had to compete with the American trade unions, which for its part of the corporate profits.
 To defeat the Reagan inflicted on strike of air traffic controllers in 1981 was a parteaguas to the trade union movement - and for the American market values, which started its dramatic upward trend in 1982.
 The US Government has been particularly aggressive in supporting the stock market bubble of the clímax since the prices of actions in 2000, especially cut interest rates on repeated occasions.
 Of course, this policy is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, not to support the stock market.
 But the percibiera that one of the fundamental factors that pesaban on the economy was to lower the price of actions is a sign of the importance of the stock market telling us.
 In fact, the response of the authorities are not confined to the monetary stimulus.
 The accounts of the gross national income and show us that the actual rate of tax on the profits corporate (the percentage of the profits that are in fact pay taxes) via the government came to a ceiling of 33.7% in the first quarter of 2000 - the height of the stock market and the economy in general-y fell to 20.2% in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the market was under.
 Much of this decline reflects the explicit support of fiscal measures approved by Congress, as well as the perception among corporations in the current political and economic climate can be more aggressive in tax evasion.
 Moreover, after the collapse of the stock market, the maximum tax on the profits of the actions are reduced 35% to 15%, which gave an advantage substantial long-term investors and reinforced the net effect consisting of reinvest dividends.
 Again, this reduction of tax is justified in terms of stimulating the economy, which, of course, be said of almost any measure aimed at supporting the securities market.
 But what determines that credible justification is the balance of political power.
 It could be said that, over the past 200 years, the same variables, including the hostility towards taxes and a weak trade union movement, operated in the US - and that it is therefore to be hoped that continue to operate in the future, producing high profits on the stock market and massive flows of attracting foreign investment.
 Those who think that investments in the market values of us will have a strong growth trend for decades may well be right.
 But we need to know what it is already predicting.
 Essentially, not only are making predictions about the economy, but also on the policies - and perhaps on the values culturales-que shape strategies and the economic performance.
 The global housing
 Houses are more local investment, rooted in a particular place as a tree, and, therefore, in response to the growing or marchitándose local economic conditions.
 The whole world is as a lightning on our TV screens of the market, but our homes, been almost in its entirety by local amateur, still planted there, in our own back yard.
 Soon, however, all this could change.
 In one month, the Chicago mercantile exchange (CME), in collaboration with my company, macromarkets, and also with fiserv and standard & poor 's launch and contracts, of future options on property prices in ten cities of the United States.
 Contracts will recall on the prices of securities indices P & S / case-shiller, which arose from the academic work that I and my colleague Karl squared began almost twenty years ago.
 For many years, we have been campaigning for the future on housing, but, until now, no wanted to use this type of stock exchange rates in order to create a market of the future.
 The futures markets on the prices of housing to enable them to investors throughout the world invest indirectly in properties in America, interests in buying them through these markets.
 An investor in Rio de Janeiro, Paris or can invest in Tokyo homes occupied by their owners in New York, the Angeles and about flood plains.
 A fundamental principle of the financial theory - "diversification" or "distributing risk" - suggests that interest in the new contracts will be high.
 Individuals and businesses in New York, for example, are sobreexpuestos their risks building local, so that this should reduce risk selling prices on the future of housing in New York.
 The people in Tokyo taking part of this risk buying future on the prices of housing in New York if the price is appropriate.
 The New Yorkers will continue to live in their own homes, but now have distributed the risk of investment at global level.
 No attempt has been made to a genuine market in future on housing unifamiliares since 1991, when the London Stock Exchange and future options (which today is part of euronext.liffe) failed in its attempt to launch such a market in Britain.
 This attempt never created much volume of transactions.
 The stock exchange and nobody was not organised a celebration.
 The British market in investment (spread-betting margins), and some retail markets online, never represented much either.
 Will this different time?
 Without doubt, to launch a new market is always a dubious proposal: people want to go to Christmas is only if many people; if not, no one wants to go.
 In the same way, in the markets without many investors, we cannot implement sufficient operations and to create the necessary to attract the returns.
 As usually happens with the big parties, can be a mystery how put substantial new markets, but we know that, in time, when the case.
 The initial indicators suggest a growing interest in operations with future on the prices of housing, above all because the fact that there is talk of both the property "bubble" stresses the importance of diversify the risk.
 After the announcement of the CME, one of its competitors, the Chicago board options exchange, said that is planned to create future contracts and options in the main American regions, which will be based on the average price property published by the national association of real estate agents.
 However, beyond the strong public interest in investing in housing and in resguardarse risks that this entails, must be resolved another critical issue for the success of future markets must be: prices and investors must understand what that means these prices.
 I believe that there is a good chance that many of these futures markets soon pronostiquen substantial price drops in some American cities in the coming year.
 What will the market operators call "backwardation" (invested): the future price on the market today is lower than the current price of housing.
 Perhaps this phenomenon not see the first day on which the future be marketed on the housing, but there is a good chance that this is happening in a matter of months.
 Perhaps backwardation "" in some of these markets, if that is going to fulfil its role.
 It is well known that there was a huge explosion buildings in many of these cities () and in other parts of the world in recent years.
 It is likely that international investors do not want to invest in these cities unless the expectations of a fall in prices will be based on the futures markets, as you know the people in Tokyo on the basis of their own experience would be disastrous.
 But if the phenomenon of 'backwardation "is strong enough to investors who think that the market will fall to a real estate American way they will still be able to expect a good return of the future on the prices of housing, because they are getting a lower prices in the market of the future.
 It will, however, be necessary adjustments to the New Yorkers who want to protect their own property sold future investment contracts that have incorporated a fall in prices.
 They will have to get used to the idea that the market will fall and the hopes that can protect themselves by only margin for possible future low prices that go beyond this expectation.
 To tell the truth, this type of adjustments in our way of thinking perhaps see when we look at the future of market prices.
 Until now, the future course of real estate prices was merely a question of various opinions.
 When the markets believe an international consensus on the future price of housing in cities throughout the world, we will be better able to manage the risks facing these cities and, therefore, to stabilize their economies, and our own lives.
 What news moving markets?
 The stock markets in large parts of the world have been marked cumulative falls from approximately 10 May in general, the low took place in a period of two weeks until approximately 23 May, but following on average prices falling since then.
 What about the problems in the stock markets around the world are translated in problems for the global economy?
 Let us look at the greatest falls.
 The rates of the main countries, the most important crash occurred in India, where prices fell actions of the 16,9 between 10% and on 22 May.
 The debacle across the globe was almost as important and the peaks and simas took a day or two after the India: in Argentina, the price of the actions and the 16,1%; in Brazil, the FF 14.7%, and in Mexico, the 13,8%.
 The markets also suffered heavy losses.
 In Sweden, the actions of the 15,2 prices fell between 9% and 22 May; approximately over the same period, the prices fell 9,7% in Germany, the 9,4% in France and Great Britain and 9.3% in Italy.
 In the same way, in Asia, prices fell actions the 11.5% in Korea, 9.3% in Hong Kong and the 8% in Japan, approximately the same period.
 Many analysts are trying to link these facts with what happened in the United States.
 But there stock prices fell only 5.2% between 9 and on 24 May.
 Nor China seems to fall behind the overall, because the price of actions there, in reality, raised during this period.
 The explanation aware of economists revolves around the monetary policy.
 Immediately after the great fear of deflation in 2003, the central banks throughout the world dropped its interest rates, which unleashed an outbreak speculative both in the stock market and in the buildings.
 But now, according to this vision, the rise in interest rates, which are starting to feel presages future falls in prices of assets.
 This argument is, in fact, an important share of truth.
 The US Federal Reserve effectively increased rates on 10 May, and its President Ben bernanke, then perhaps had indicated that other subas charges in the future.
 On 17 may be unveiled discouraging data on inflation in the United States, which suggests that there is a file in future monetary adjustment.
 Economists I like to think that the world is logical and manageable, which means that they understand what is happening.
 But, in doing so, tend to exaggerate the role of the central banks.
 In fact, the rate of increase in the United States was just one in a series of subas charges - decimosexta consecutiva-.
 No other important central bank rates rose after the start inching falls in the stock markets between May and June, when the 7-8 several did (the European Central Bank, India, South Africa, South Korea, Thailand and Turkey).
 Another factor is the price of oil, which rose by 24% between 22 March and on 2 May, making records all the time.
 Without doubt, this was an important event which may affect the stock markets throughout the world.
 The increases in the price of oil has been virtually all responsible economic recessions since the Second World War.
 Even so, the increases in the price of oil do not correspond with the period in the middle of May in which the rates of securities markets fell more badly.
 To say that the increases in the price of oil caused the falls in the stock markets presupposes a period of delay of several weeks.
 But the stock markets are not very logical, delayed and there could be a response to the price of oil shocks.
 As with any price rises in the financial markets, a draws attention.
 When oil prices rise quickly, people look at the news relating to oil prices and talk more about oil prices, thereby creating greater sensitivity on these reports.
 The crisis in the Middle East is linked to the price of oil and dominated the news in the month of May.
 The increases in the price of oil amplificaron possibly in the mind of the investors agoreras strong signals and the language used by several senior political figures.
 On 8 May, in response to statements made by the Iranian President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad hostile Israeli vice-premier, the Israeli Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, said that "the President of Iran should remember that Iran can also be wiped off the map".
 In the same way, almost at the beginning of the collapse of the financial markets may Ahmadinejad, Indonesia, visited the most highly populated country in the world with a majority Muslim, and 13 May newspapers published students that two of the most prestigious universities of the country had ovacionado standing.
 This history could have been interpreted as proof that the bravuconería of Ahmadinejad on the nuclear question I was redituando politically, which feeds the perception that the tense situation in the Middle East could result in still higher oil prices.
 These reports seem far more remote from the securities market that monetary policy.
 But how can the public reacts to address them, together with the recent increases in the price of oil, it can respond to a large extent by the change in the psychology of the market.
 Attitudes towards the risk changing all the time, and episodes such as the statements of ahmedinejad precipitate and Peres can this kind of change.
 In this way, while these things happen in ways that are difficult to quantify, perhaps the analysts should pay equal attention to Ahmadinejad's words that the bernanke when trying to understand the direction taken the stock markets around the world.
 Economists perhaps not like public opinion and concentrate on how interacts with changes in prices, the news of the whole world and the dynamic speculative.
 After all, this means that the economic developments are less and less predictable (economists, omniscientes) what we like to think of them.
 But this approach makes sense in what intuition concerned.
 What, in fact, on the minds of investors?
 Ahmadinejad is a figure carismática; bernanke, not.
 Ahmadinejad is embarking on an adventure; not bernanke.
 And, perhaps most importantly, Ahmadinejad is a destabilising influence; bernanke, not.
 In reality, whatever its root cause, the falls in the middle of May in the prices of actions in the whole world indicate a psychology market unstable.
 It beggars belief that were involved solely with views on a possible monetary policy and not with more profound and more important issues, such as energy and political tension, which underpin the performance of the world economy.
 Why should pay more for fairness?
 Marks & Spencer, a supermarket chain and clothes shops with 400 throughout Britain, recently announced that is turning its entire branch of coffee and tea, with a total of 38 Fairtrade lines, a symbol of marketing, which represents a 'ethics' production.
 The chain already sold only tea and coffee Fairtrade in its 200 cafeterias It revives coffee.
 It is also encouraging the purchase of shirts and other products derived from Fairtrade cotton.
 The announcement was Fairtrade "for" a fortnight, promotion of two weeks Fairtrade products which included giras where farmers in developing countries are probably the British how Fairtrade attending their communities.
 The movement towards a more ethical consumption made important progress in America, because consumers are in favour, increasingly, for organic food produced locally and eggs are not confined to hens in cages.
 In Britain, a survey found that half of the people that they showed the symbol Fairtrade was acknowledged and understood that relates to products that are better conditions for farmers in the third world.
 There is a similar research in the United States, but on the basis of data related, and discussions with my own pupils, it reveals that the figure would be much lower.
 Traders seeking a certification Fairtrade producers must pay a price to cover the costs of a sustainable production and offers a salary which allows them to live.
 For example, the minimum price for coffee is 1,26 grams per 450, no matter how might have fallen the market price.
 If the market price rises above that figure, increase the price of Fairtrade so that still costing five cents per 450 more grammes.
 Small farmers, for its part, is required organised in cooperatives or other groups which enable the democratic participation.
 Plantations and factories can use the Fairtrade label if they pay their employees decent wages, if they meet the standards of health, safety and the environment, if they can organise unions or other forms of associations of workers, if they offer a housing workers who do not live in their own home and if they use child labour or forced labour.
 Not everyone agrees with Fairtrade.
 Brink Lindsey, Director of the Centre for the study of trade policies promercadista Cato Institute, believes that the campaign coffee Fairtrade "is a blind alley" show good will.
 With some justification, maintains that the real cause of the fall in coffee prices was not the skim off of multinationals, but the large increases in the production of coffee in Brazil and Vietnam, combined with new technologies which make it possible to produce coffee with less manpower and, therefore, with lower costs.
 According to the opinion of Lindsey, if we want to help the coffee growers, we should encourage them to abandon the coffee and produce more profitable crops - and here says, accordingly, barriers to trade and subsidies of rich countries as obstacles which need to be desmantelarse- products or move towards greater value, as special cafes, which have higher prices.
 The curious thing about the argument Lindsey, however, is that it could be said that the campaign of coffee Fairtrade is doing exactly what he recommends, encourages the coffee growers to produce a coffee with a special value more elevado-.
 Economists pro-mercado not says that they will apply to esnobismo blatantly corporations to promote their products.
 If people want to pay USD 48 by 450 grams of coffee blue mountain of Jamaica because that is what we prefer, James Bond economists not says that is distorting the market.
 Why, then, be critical when consumers choose pay USD 12 by 450 grams of coffee, you know, was cultivated without toxic chemical substances under trees, which promote the survival of the birds, for farmers who can afford to feed and educate their children?
 Economists could reply that, if one wants to help people to feed and educate their children can pay USD 10 for 450 grams of coffee is not Fairtrade but which takes the same taste and give the USD 2 to an entity that saves charities to give food and education boys poor.
 It is possible, but a strategy Fairtrade has its advantages.
 The farmers know that they have to offer a product like to consumers, both for his taste and for the way in which it is grown.
 If the product is sold well, can pride itself on having produced something which seeks the people throughout the world.
 From the perspective of the growers, receive a bonus is preferable to sell a product Fairtrade receiving a donation of charity which would in any case, work or not, and regardless of the quality of what they produce.
 Paying more for a label is not more Fairtrade "anti-mercado" to pay more for a label Gucci, and better reflects ethical priorities.
 Fairtrade is not a government subsidy.
 Its success depends on the demand side of the market, not the political lobby.
 Fortunately, in Europe, this demand for market is growing rapidly.
 It is to be hoped that it will soon reach levels similar in all the developed world, where people can choose what its discretionary expenditure.
 Marranos calves, and the American democracy.
 In the midst of all the headlines which spoke of democrats had obtained the control of the Congress of the United States, an election result important step almost unnoticed.
 Although highlighted the shortcomings of the American political system, I returned faith in the sympathy of ordinary Americans.
 In Arizona, citizens can submit a draft law on direct popular vote if collected by a sufficient number of signatures.
 This year, one of the issues included in the ballot was a law to ban is atara confinara or a marrana fraught with political pitfalls or for beef and veal criada so that it prevented from the animal to return freely, were completely and extend its extremidades.
 Those who know little about the modern industrial rearing can ask why we need this legislation.
 Under the farming methods that were universal 50 years ago and which remain common in some countries currently have room for all animals and return to their extremidades stretch.
 However, today around 90% of the marranas farming - the mothers of pigs which are bred and kill to obtain meat, and jamón Tocino — spend most of their lives locked in cages measuring 2 (2) says cms. by approximately 60 metres.
 There must be thrown back on its back, with its widespread completely or more like a step backwards or forwards.
 They are still tied to other marranas with ropes short also prevent them to return.
 Calves are trapped in a similar way throughout their lives in pens which do not allow them to be thrown back or stretch their extremidades.
 These methods are essentially work to save resources, facilitate the handling of animals and allow the farms that have thousands or tens of thousands of animals to recruit a limited number of less skilled workers.
 Also prevent animals wasted energy and fight them.
 Several years ago, following protests by organisations of animal protection, the European Union gave its Scientific Veterinary Committee a report on these methods.
 The Committee found that animals are not being able to move freely and not to have absolutely nothing to do throughout the day.
 Of course, the common sense would have led to the same conclusion.
 As a follow-up to the report, the EU set dates after which would be banned contained in these animals.
 In the case of calves, the date of 1 January 2007, has almost been reached.
 The marranas for individual pens, which are already illegal in the United Kingdom and Sweden, will be prohibited throughout the EU from 2013.
 We are gradually taking measures to improve the welfare of laying hens, which are generally apretujadas kept in cages without to extend their area of barbed wings.
 In the United States makes no national measure of this kind.
 Before my fellow Europeans, when I asked why the United States are lagging behind with regard to Europe in terms of the animals ’ well-being, I have not had a reply.
 If I were pressing, had to admit that the explanation could be that the Americans are less for animals that Europeans.
 Then, in 2002 the animal welfare included in the boletas electoral Florida a proposal to ban the Augean for the marranas.
 To the surprise of many, received the approval of the 55% of the voters.
 Last month in Arizona, despite opposition well financed on an industrial scale of the sector, the ban on battery cages for small and marranas calves also was adopted with the support of the 62%.
 Nor are particularly progressive Florida or Arizona Member - both voted by George W. Bush and not by John Kerry in 2004.
 That is why the results indicate firmly believe that if all the Americans will give them the chance to vote on the confinement of marranas preñadas and calves in places such small, the majority voted against.
 It seems to us that the welfare of the animals concerned as Europeans.
 Therefore, to explain the difference between Europe and the United States in terms of the animals ’ well-being, we must look at the political systems.
 In Europe, the concerns of the voters on the welfare of animals have been able to influence members of parliaments and Members of the European Parliament, which has resulted in national laws and guidelines of the EU to respond to these concerns.
 In contrast, in the United States have similar concerns not observable had an effect on the Members of Congress.
 There is no federal legislation on the welfare of farm animals, and very few aid legislation.
 That, I believe, must be given to the sector on an industrial scale tens of millions of dollars to the representatives of the Congress who seek re-election.
 The movement for the welfare of animals, despite the broad popular support, has not been able to compete in the field of political lobbying and donations campaigns.
 The American policy in the money that more account of the opinion of the voters.
 The party discipline is weak and the representatives must meet themselves the majority of the funds required for re-election, and this happens every two years in the case of the members of the House of Representatives.
 In Europe, where the partisan discipline is rigid and parties, not the candidate countries, who are funded campaigns, the money plays a minor role.
 In the United States, a country that is proud of its democratic traditions, not only lose out the marranas and calves.
 What is new about the new Afghan army?
 The murder of aviation multitudinario Minister of Afghanistan (perhaps incited by members of the administration itself temporary Afghanistan) shows that the Afghan society remains deeply fisurada.
 The first of these reforms will only Afghan army wider divisions.
 The Minister of Defence of the temporary administration of Hamid Karzai in Kabul already appointed to more senior officials of this new army.
 The Minister, the general fahim Mohammed, is a tayik the Panjshir constituency in the north of the country that three months ago took the command of the forces of the Northern Alliance to Kabul, after the American aclararon bombers them the way.
 On the whole, their appointments are a direct challenge to which Mr Karzai has the objective of reuniting the country.
 Afghanistan is a nation, the Pashtun multi-ethnic remains the largest group, with two fifths of the total.
 The hazara and the tayik are each around one fifth of the population.
 Of treintaiocho high official rank of general by Mr fahim, treintaisiete are tayik Uzbek and the other.
 If one of the 15 to 17 million of the Pashtun country is reclutado will serve as a soldier, under a command structure made up almost in its entirety by tayiks.
 The language of the Pashtun, however, is very different from the tayik as the English and Spanish million of the Pashtun age of serving in the militia know only a breath of tayik, at best.
 The profile of the new geographical military leadership is so angosto as their ethnic constitution.
 Treintaicinco of the treintaiocho high-ranking official more from a small area north of Kabul, constituída for the province parwan (which localiza airport Bagram) and by the Panjshir Valley, which for a long time was strong square the Northern Alliance.
 Put another way, the leaders of the potential of twenty-seven twenty-nine provinces of Afghanistan were out of the new military elite of the country.
 Perhaps a group with a basis of such little variety could not give the impression that its Members represent a secretive clique if represented a large section of the twelve crusade or more parties of the country.
 But that is not the case.
 Of the 18 treintaiocho top commanders come from a party, the jamiat-e-islami, the Islamic faction led by Mullah long and exprofesor theology burhanuddin Rabbani.
 This was the party which ruled Kabul in the middle of the 1990s, led the bloodshed and the chaos which led the majority of the Afghan given the welcome the Taliban.
 Almost igualando the number of Members of jamiat in the military hierarchy, are the Communists.
 Dieciseis of the treintaiocho have been a long time in line with this party, whose manoeuvres of the late seventies led to the Soviet invasion of 1979-89, which cost the lives of two and a half million Afghan women.
 Today the majority of the Afghan people see the Communists with the same sympathy that the Czechs or Poles reserved for the nacionalsocialistas of Hitler.
 True, the people in Afghanistan, as everywhere, joined the Communist Party for various reasons and ningua way they are all in favour of strict ideologies.
 But in the case of the general guidelines of fahim six were employed professionals in the Communist Party and continued to work for him after the invasion of the Red Army.
 Six, the other three communists who served as official of the Afghan army, actively collaborated over the decade of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
 Imagine how the French have reacted if a quarter of the official body of existing in France in the aftermath had taken the side of the Wehrmacht when he country.
 In Afghanistan, the news from the mouth of travel quickly.
 The Afghan nationalist (between those who are almost all the Afghan) soon you will find the political background Members of the inner circle of general fahim, if it is not already know.
 Even this sobrecogeedora evidence and unipartidismo bias in the training of high command of new army could be neutralised if the general brindaran professionalism and commitment to the values of a genuine national patriotic armed force through its work.
 Unfortunately, only ten of the military treintaiocho promoted by fahim have fungido as official military professionals.
 The eleventh served as a pilot.
 In contrast, twenty-four of the total (the background of the remaining four unknown) come from civil society, with any professions, or of the offices of the Communist Party, or in one of the cases of making a career as mulá.
 What do these statistics in terms of the daily reality?
 Mean that when the commanders of the international forces for peace in Afghanistan, as well as the military and American diplomats, know at asistende Minister of Defence in Afghanistan will have considerably dostum Abdul Rashid, a brutal and corrupt military commander and Communist which remains in contact with old friends of the Red Army still operating in Moscow.
 This means that the head of the armed forces in Afghanistan, as well as the head of operations and the head of military intelligence, are also Communists, men whose loyalty is uncertain and who distrust of the majority of the Afghan people.
 This is a team would have the possibility of unifying the Afghanistan fragmented by the war?
 How will inspire the presence in Kabul as dudable crew, confidence in the three quarters of the population of Afghanistan have been out of the high command army?
 Or is this list, rather, harvest a rapprochement with the governability of the kind that the winner "to" Everything is aimed at some future point () to trigger national bloody another setback in the hands of those whose legitimate interests have been atropellados cynically?
 The Americans, the United Nations of Europe and the people responsible for the definition of policies should ponder these questions before consent allowed a merciless seizure of power by a small minority and unpopular.
 A recognition of the irrational
 My applause Nobel prizes for the new economy: Daniel kahneman University's colleague and Vernon Smith, the University of George mason Virginia.
 Like many others galardones Nobel Prize winners, these are not just a recognition of the work done by señero kahneman and Smith, but also to schools of thought which helped lead.
 Kahneman, which is sicólogo, has shown how people behave systematically rational ways less than orthodox economists believe.
 Research shows that not only people sometimes act differently to predict what the economic theories standard, but they do on a regular and systematic, and in ways that we can understand and interpreted by alternative scenarios that compete with used by the orthodox economists.
 For all market participants (and, indeed, for the observers ordinary) this does not appear to be a great innovation.
 The Wall Street agents who put on sale actions they knew that there were no justice to assert the irrationality kahneman Smith and that have been expressed.
 A large part of the foot-and-mouth which led to the bubble economy was based on the exploitation of the sicología investors.
 In fact, this is not a new irrationality nor for the profession of economists.
 For a long time John Maynard Keynes described the market values as something rational based not on people who are fighting for develar the fundamental rules of the market, but as a beauty contest in the adivina who wins the verdict of the judges.
 The Sakharov Prize of this year is a tribute to the criticism of a market economy simplistic, as did the prize last year (of which was one of the three winners).
 The winners last year put emphasis on the various participants in the market have different (e) imperfect information, and that these asymmetries in the information they have a profound impact on how the economy.
 In particular, the themselves rewarded last year involved such markets were not effective in general, and that the government should play an important role.
 The invisible hand of Adam Smith (the idea that markets are efficiency as if the manejara an invisible hand) is invisible, at least in part, because it is not there.
 That is not new to those working day in the market (and their fortunes advantage and saving asymmetries in information).
 For more than twenty years economists have been fascinated by the so-called models of "," the rational expectations that were all participants have the same - if not perfect) information and acting in a perfectly rational, that markets are fully efficient, that unemployment is never (except when it is caused by the greed of the trade unions or the minimum wages governments), and in which there is never a rationing of credit.
 If these models have prevailed, especially in the American universities, despite the evidence to the contrary, is a testimony to the triumph of ideology on science.
 Unfortunately, these programmes university students who are now designing policies of many countries, and are trying to implement programmes based on the ideas that are termed the fundamentalism of the market.
 I have not malentienda models: the rational expectations made an important contribution to the economy; the rigour imposed its advocates the economic thinking helped to expose the weaknesses of many underlying assumption.
 The good Science recognises its limitations, but the prophets of rational expectations often do not have shown that modesty.
 Vernon Smith is a leader in the development of the economy experimental, the idea that it is possible to test a number of proposals in a laboratory economic environment.
 One of the reasons that the economy is a very difficult subject, and why there are so many discordancias between economists, is the fact that they cannot be controlled experiments.
 Nature provides us with natural experiments, but in almost all the circumstances so many things are changing so quickly that it is often difficult to fathom what caused what else.
 In principle, in a laboratory tests can be controlled and therefore do inferencias more reliable.
 The critics of the economy are concerned that the experimental subject lead to situations experimental ways of thinking caused outside the experiment and, therefore, that the experiment is not so clear and that the inferencias not so as defined in the natural sciences.
 However, the experiments provide economic prospects for a number of important issues, such as better design of auctions.
 More importantly, the irrationality of market participants, which was the focus of the work of kahneman has been repeatedly in contexts laboratory.
 Between the results more fun that have emerged from the experimental economy are those relating to the altruísmo and egoism.
 It seems that at least) (situations in the pilot experiments are not the subject of the selfish as economists have raised in its assumptions, except in the case of a group: economists themselves.
 This is due to the fact that the economy and discipline attracts to people who are more selfish by nature or the economy to help train, making them more selfish individuals?
 The answer is almost certainly both things a little.
 Probably, the future experimental research will help resolve the question on the relative importance of these two scenarios.
 The Sakharov Prize stresses how important it is to study the people and the economy, as we are not as they are.
 Only if we understand better the real human behaviour can expect designing policies that make our economies work better.
 The bad faith of the energy policy of Bush
 In one of the most surrealistas session of the World Economic Forum in Davos this year, the experts of the oil industry derretimiento explained how the ice of the ozone polar - which is going faster than anyone had previsto- represents not only a problem, but also an opportunity: now that can facilitate access to vast quantities of oil.
 Similarly, these experts granted to the fact that the United States has not signed the Convention of the Sea, the international treaty that determines who has access to oil and minerals maritime overseas other rights, presents a risk of international conflict.
 But also point out the positive side: the oil industry, in his relentless quest for more reservations, we need to ask the Congress to give the right to plundering Alaska.
 The President George W. Bush has a strange not to see greater ability of the message.
 For years, it has become increasingly clear that its energy policy is quite inadequate.
 According to the dictates of the oil industry, even members of his own party referred to a previous law energy as a "no" no lobbista left unsatisfied.
 At the same time that commends the virtues of the free market, Bush has done no more than make enormous prebendas the energy industry, even in times in which the country faces altísimos deficits.
 There is a failure of the market in relation to energy, but the government intervention should go in precisely the opposite direction to that proposed by the Bush administration.
 The fact that the Americans do not pay the price of pollution resulting from its derrochador use of energy - the huge quantities of causing the greenhouse effect invernadero- means that this is undervalued, which in turn maintains a excessive consumption.
 The government must encourage conservation and intervene in the system of prices - through taxes to the energía- is an efficient way of doing so.
 However, instead of encouraging the conservation, Bush has pursued a policy of "be disposed to the United States first", left to us more dependent on external oil in the future.
 It does not matter to increase demand that high oil prices, creating a torrent of money for many of those involved in the Middle East which are not exactly friends of the United States.
 Today, more than four years of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Bush seems to have finally woken up to the reality of the growing dependence on the USA; with the steep rise in oil prices, it will be difficult to bear the consequences.
 However, with almost all the hesitant safety measures of their administration will exacerbate things in the immediate future.
 Bush still refuses to do anything in terms of conservation, and has supported with very little money for its constant mantra that technology is what we must save.
 What, then, can we think of their recent declaration of a commitment to ensure that the USA is 75% less dependent on oil from the Middle East within 25 years?
 For investors, the message is clear: we invest more in the development of reserves in the Middle East, which is by far the most cheap source of oil in the world.
 However, without new investments in the development of reserves in the Middle East, debocado growth of energy consumption in the United States, China and the rest of the world means that the pace of demand exceeded the supply side.
 As if that were not enough, the threat of sanctions against Iran Bush poses the risk of further interruptions in the supply of one of the largest producers in the world.
 At times that the production of oil in the world is approaching its full capacity and prices are already more than double the level before the war in Iraq, the future implies prices and even greater profits for the oil industry, the only clear winner of the policy of Bush in the Middle East.
 It is clear that should not be accused Bush at least and finally, having recognised that there is a problem.
 But, as always, a more detailed look at what it proposes another suggests trick hands on the part of its administration.
 In addition to refuse to recognise the importance of global warming, encourage conservation or devote sufficient funds to research to make a real difference, the lofty promise Bush of achieving a reduction of dependence on oil from the Middle East means less of it.
 Given that only 20% of oil from the Middle East, in the United States could be achieved their goal with a modest change in the acquisition of this resource from other sources.
 However pensar- - one could certainly that the Bush administration is aware that the oil are traded in a global market.
 Even if the United States were independent 100% of oil from the Middle East, a reduction in the supply from this region would have devastating effects on the world price and the American economy.
 As is so often the case with the Bush administration, the explanation of the official policy is not very rosy.
 Bush is playing politics to fuelling the feeling anti-árabe and anti-iraní in the USA?
 Or is just another example of incompetence and disorder?
 As we have seen in the last five years, the correct response probably contains more than something bad faith and pure ineptitude.
 The roadmap of China
 China is on the point of adopting its eleventh five-year plan, setting the stage for the continuation of probably the most remarkable economic transformation of history, while improving the material situation of almost a quarter of the world's population.
 Before the world had ever seen a case of sustained growth; never before has there been such a level of poverty reduction.
 Part of the continuing success of China has been almost unique combination of vision and pragmatism.
 While most of the developing world, along the lines of the Washington consensus, it has embarked on a quijotesca crusade for increased GDP, China has once again made clear that seeks sustentables more equitable and increases in the standards of real life.
 China is aware that have entered a phase of economic development that is - and insostenibles- represents huge demands on the environment.
 Unless there is a change of direction, the standards of living will be affected.
 For this reason, the new plan of five years puts great emphasis on the environment.
 Several of the most backward areas of China have been growing at a rate which would be prodigious, if it were not for the fact that some parts of the country are growing even faster.
 Although this has reduced poverty, inequality has increased, with ever greater disparities between urban and rural areas, and between coastal areas and the market.
 The development of the World Bank report this year explains why the inequality and poverty must not only be a concern, and the eleventh five-year plan of China is the problem head-on.
 For several years, the government has spoken of a more harmonious society, and the action described in order to achieve this ambitious programmes.
 Moreover, China recognizes that what separates the least developed countries of the developed countries is not only a gap in income, but also a gap in knowledge.
 So it has drawn up a bold scheme is not only to reduce it, but also to create a basis for innovation independent.
 China's role in the world and the world economy has changed, and the plan also reflects this.
 Its future growth will be based more on the internal demand that exports, which will require an increase in consumption.
 In fact, China has a little problem: a common level of excessive savings.
 People saves due in part to the weakness of the programmes for the social security of government; the strengthening of social security and pensions) (public health at the same time reduce the social inequalities, increase the sense of well-being of the citizens and promote the current consumption.
 If China succeed - and so far has exceeded even their own expectations), these adjustments can mean enormous pressure on a global economic system that is already unevenly weighted due to the enormous fiscal imbalances and trade of the USA.
 If China saves less and if, as announced their authorities, seeks to implement a policy that is more diversified investment of their reservas-, who will finance the over $2 billion daily trade deficit of us?
 It is a matter for another occasion, but can that day is not very far.
 So with a clear vision of the future, the challenge will deliver it.
 China is a large country, and could not have been achieved without the success it has had a widespread decentralisation.
 But the descentralizaciones raise its own problems.
 For example, the greenhouse gases are global problems.
 While the United States says that cannot be allowed to do anything about it, the highest authorities of China have acted in a more responsible.
 In the month after the adoption of the plan, imposed new environmental taxes on cars, petrol and forest products - China market-based mechanisms used to address the problems and global environmental commitments.
 However, the pressure on the authorities of the local governments to establish economic growth and jobs will be enormous.
 They will be very tempted to argue that if the USA cannot produce in a way that protects the planet, how could do them?
 Vision to translate its actions, the Chinese Government will need sound policies, such as environmental taxes just apply.
 The move towards a market economy, China has developed some of the problems that have affected repeatedly to the developed countries: their selfish interests which masquerade arguments behind a veil of tenuous market ideology.
 Some would argue in favour of the economy of the chorreo: we are concerned about the poor, because that will benefit all finally growth.
 And some will oppose it to policies on competition and the existence of sound laws on the handling of corporations act: let the law of the survival Darwinian.
 There will be focused on growth arguments to oppose the existence of social policies and sound environmental: for example, it will be said that "if taxes are petrol, that will mean the stifling of our nascent automotive industry".
 These so-called political pro-crecimiento not only what created, but which may threaten the same vision of the future of China.
 There is only one way to avoid: an open debate of economic policies, in order to expose the fallacies that arise and to provide scope for creative solutions to the many challenges facing China today.
 George W. Bush has shown the dangers of an excessive secrecy and limit the decision-making process to a close circle of followers.
 The majority of people outside China does not see to what extent their leaders, in contrast, were involved in lengthy deliberations and extensive consultations with foreigners) (even in their efforts to solve the enormous problems that face.
 The market economies are not regulate themselves.
 We cannot simply leave on automatic pilot, particularly if one wants to ensure that all enjoy the benefits.
 However, it is not easy to administer a market economy.
 As a malabarista constantly, it must respond to balance economic changes.
 The eleventh five-year plan of China gives a roadmap for that reply.
 The world looks with astonishment and hope to measure the lives of 1.3 billion people are still transformándose.
 The lessons of Tocqueville on democracy.
 It seems appropriate that, due to the war in Iraq, which the world is debating the nature of democracy to two hundred years since the birth of Alexis de Tocqueville.
 Tocqueville justly famous nostalgia is to reject the reactionary and consider the triumph of democracy as our destiny, while warned of the dangers associated with democracy for freedom.
 Are we to continue with their concerns?
 Concebía Tocqueville democracy not only as a political regime, but above all as a regime intellectual gives way to the customs of society in general, and thereby gave a psychological and sociological dimension.
 Tocqueville argued that democratic regimes, determine our thoughts, wishes and passions.
 As well as there was a man renacentista and, in the twentieth century, a sovieticus homo democratic "," the man is a variety of human beings.
 For systemic Tocqueville, the effects of democracy could lead the public to be deprived of its reasoned opinion.
 Only could pretend that juzgaban events and values alone; in fact, purely copiaban toscas simplified and the views of the masses.
 In fact, what Tocqueville called the domination of the 'social' power on the opinion is probably stronger democratic regimes in view of -punto predicts that the growth of demagogy in modern times and the manipulation of the media.
 Tocqueville believed that this trend is not had effective long-term limitations.
 Neither the democracies, nor the small local societies, nor the checks and balances, organisations and civil rights can prevent the decline of critical thinking that democracy appears to cause.
 Schools have the power to be little more than enclaves in the middle of the strength of the social corrosive effect on the functioning of the mind.
 Similarly, while Tocqueville thought to seek the virtue as we did in the old or have a religion on some occasions could raise the soul, also brought into conflict with the democratic ideal if we officially prescribed in public life.
 In this sense, the heirs of intellectuals Tocqueville include neomarxistas theorists of school in Frankfurt, as well as Hannah Arendt them all feared above all to the disintegration of reason in modern societies.
 In fact, the French philosopher Marcel Gauchet intituló a book recently against democracy itself.
 The democratic way of life, as these argue writers, tends to destroy the original thinking and to remove the "high" culture, which results in a mediocrity that makes citizens vulnerable to the enemies of democracy.
 But, while the history is full of regimes for mass murderers alabados intimidated and misled, the great risk for the democratic countries is that their citizens fall into the apathy and in view of the short term for the sake of immediate satisfaction.
 The past - despite the ritual seeking históricos- moment commemorate is obliterated due to addiction for new and recent.
 Even the ruling class supposedly well-educated is subject to this charm.
 The main problem is the lack of democracy in the minds of historical awareness.
 What about the shortcomings of democracy, really mean, as argued Tocqueville resigned pessimism, which is the only way that we -realista but insostenible-?
 I do not think so.
 There are ways to fight against what could be called the 'democratic' growing stupidity today.
 The first defence is pressing for an education system that is genuinely critical minds, namely by means of raw largely neglected (currently) literature, history and philosophy.
 If we want the public to be informed and criticism that democracy, needs our schools must cease to give in to the most recent modas temporary and start to improve capacities analytical estimates of students.
 The biggest obstacle to that education is the means of mass communication, with its tendency to cultivate the superficial and enjoyment.
 Many people currently happening more time watching television that their lives in the salones class.
 The passivity which promote the media is the exact opposite of active participation that citizens need democratic.
 But it is difficult to imagine that the mass media communication (with the exception of the newspapers quality), by being turned into instruments of its own volition, an education that strengthen capacities criticism of the citizens.
 This concern about the mass media communication is not purely elitist contempt towards the popular culture.
 The question is not only of popularity - after all, Mozart was popular in his time and works of teatrales Shakespeare atraían both to the poor and the ricos- but rejection of culture to challenge the destruction and provoke.
 The result of this failure is a widespread indifference and passivity of the public.
 Indeed, for a long time been a flourishing culture global media that is incapable of giving the ability of critical thinking or create high feelings.
 It is a culture which, due to their threat because democratic oversight, freedom cannot create any sense of duty - society, the history of the Community.
 It is too late to do something about a culture which then both the spirit?
 Despreciaba Tocqueville the elites of her time by its complacency towards the strength of deracination destruction of democracy.
 Perhaps it will also help the short-sightedness of our leaders such as agent of your prophecy disturbing?
 A Europe for all
 Today, states that long belong to European Union seem to doubt the future of the same, but in the Ukraine are with hope and admiration.
 Cling to the development of the EU is the basic objective of our foreign policy, that Ukraine has already discovered that it is a nation is not an end but a beginning.
 Indeed, European unity is indivisible: when a nation is doomed to unite, none of them is free.
 We Europeans are part of a network, indispensable close together in a single fabric that represents our destination.
 Every aspect of our common culture, if not the last century of shared suffering, confirms this.
 Everything which affects a European directly and indirectly affects us all.
 Never again cannot afford to live with a narrow concept of two Europes, privileged and dispossessed, known and outsiders.
 Anyone who live within the European continent can (or indeed) must be regarded as alien to the Union.
 This great Union depend the Pax and prosperity pan-European today.
 Of course, some people there are murmurs from that Ukraine is not Europe.
 To come to Kiev and talk with the young people, both as the largest, with workers from factories, farmers' wives, lawyers, doctors and teachers who sat in the street, enduring weeks during the cold and snow last winter to defend their freedoms.
 What we are united by a link with those who sat on the side of General de Gaulle in the French resistance?
 What we are fighting for those who died in the Spanish Republic in the 1930s, with those who liberated Budapest in 1956, and with those who put an end to fascism in Spain and Portugal in the 1970s?
 Are you not inspired by the same spirit which gave forces to the Solidarity movement in Poland and the peaceful masses that protagonizaron the Velvet Revolution in Prague in 1989?
 That is the real European spirit, and no doubt can derrumbarlo.
 To those who say that Ukraine is too delayed as to join the EU, I say, too, that in my country to come and see the mothers who are night at their places of work to teach their children to use their computers.
 To come to see the lessons of languages in every city where young people and are preparing to Europe, learning French, German and English.
 Those who have doubts about the European vocation of Ukraine must understand that Europe is not a matter of civil service machines and and superautopistas; it is the inextinguible desire for freedom, prosperity and solidarity.
 I believe that our future is promising as brilliant is the past in Europe, and that our destination is not to be a forgotten country in a border region problems, but a manufacturer and architect of peace and unity of Europe.
 Self-determination already does not mean isolation, because the national independence achieve today means only return on the world stage with a new status.
 The new nations with his former occupiers can create the same sort of fruitful relationship that France has developed with Germany, a relationship based on equality and mutual interests.
 This is the kind of relationship with Russia that my government seeks to achieve it, and it is the way we can extend the area of peace in Europe.
 Of course, it is premature to another which indicate the great interest to see the prospect of membership of the EU.
 We know that our part in this very building is not built overnight.
 We know that the major projects of the unification of Europe do not lie in documents or declarations, but in innovative actions designed to improve the lives and guarantee the safety of all Europeans.
 Building a Ukraine worthy of being a member of the EU will not be easy, cheaply and quickly.
 However, as the European Union itself, is a company that will be achieved.
 We know that the challenge is large, but the prize worth the effort, and Europe needs to know that this is our goal.
 Part of the task to renew Ukraine is a creative battle to put an end to a century of nightmare that fascism and communism ideologies, born in the heart of Europe, fought for the total power.
 Only a few months ago, in the cities throughout Ukraine, our children and their parents faced armed troops, threatening to dogs, or even death.
 Only a few years ago, a young journalist Georgi Gongadze, when it comes to inform the public about the corruption of the old regime was beheaded by, tortured and his henchmen.
 However, our orange revolution of last winter showed that the people of Ukraine prevailed.
 So, despite the doubts and difficulties today, I am an unshakeable faith in Europe.
 I rehúso concern as to accept the final answer to the ambiguities and horrors of Ukraine ’ s history.
 I rehúso to accept the view that Ukraine is so tragically linked to the opaque midnight of the heritage of communism that will never be able to see the dawn of peace and the truth of European unity.
 When the citizens of the EU sopesen the place of Ukraine in Europe, must see far more and more closely than there is at first sight.
 Should look beyond the devastated páramos left communism, beyond poverty and beyond social divisions through which our former leaders today, bypassed, tried to extend its misrule.
 Instead, we should look closely the face of our President, Viktor Yushchenko, distorted by the poison during the electoral campaign last year and remember the words of the great French André Malraux ", for whom the most beautiful faces are those that have been injured".
 The civil war of Muslims.
 Today is the division between Shiites, Sunnis in the Middle East deeper than the antagonism between Israel and the Arab?
 It might be thought that, given the response of certain Arab governments to the decision of Hezbollah of attacking Israel.
 Even in times that the Israeli bombs fell over Beirut and stone, Saudi Arabia, perhaps the most conservative Muslim Arab country openly condemned, of all the actions of Hezbollah, which is an organisation, shií for instigating the conflict with Israel.
 Never before in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict a State that is regarded as leader of the Arab Muslim peoples had supported Israel so openly.
 Moreover, the breakdown of Saudi Arabia with Hezbollah is not something isolated.
 Egypt and Jordan have also condemned categorically to Hezbollah and its leader, Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, for its lack of responsibility.
 What is behind this surprising attitude?
 What we are witnessing a fundamental change in the relationship between the Islamic and Arab nationalism dogmatism?
 Saudi Arabia is more concerned with Islam and afraid that Shia committed with the Arab unity and the Palestinian cause?
 Accusations of Arab against Hezbollah suggest that the sectarian divide between Muslims, already evident in the daily violence in Iraq, is deepening and making it more closely in the Middle East.
 The desire of President George W. Bush remecer the standstill societies in the Arab world was the intention to lift the forces of modernisation against those elements of the traditional Arab and Islamic societies.
 Instead, appears to have led to more atávicas forces in the region.
 This open Pandora's box can be given to start a new and more bitter was widespread violence, perhaps we can only call a "civil war Muslim".
 The division between Shiites, Sunnis has existed since the origins of Islam, but the geographical isolation and ethnic Arab Shia not of Iran, together with the dominance of the Arab countries on its minorities Shiites, Sunnis largely kept this rivalry in second place.
 These tensions retrocedieron even more with the tide Islamist created by the Iranian revolution, since it after the sectarian Arab lost identity even more weight to the extent that stemmed identification 'Islamic' widespread.
 All of this changed when al-Qaeda terrorist Sunni, a force which relies heavily on the ideology of the Wahhabi Saudis and its people, its attacks on the USA launched in September 2001.
 There was an arm of militant specifically Sunni Islam.
 When the United States gave to start their wars against the Taliban regime Sunni Sunnis in Afghanistan and Iraq, this new ordinary Sunni radical strengthened still further.
 The Sunni Arabs in the region, with its new strength, perceive that Israel and the West are only one of the threats, while the other is the so-called "growing Shia," the arc of land that extends from Lebanon, Syria and Iran, Iraq via inhabited by the supposedly heréticos Shiites.
 The rulers of Saudi Arabia, as guardians of the most sacred places of the Muslim faith in Mecca Medina, and so the time are more inclined to feel this threat.
 In the eyes of the Sunni, Shia not only dominate the rich areas of oil in Iran, Iraq and the eastern region of Saudi Arabia, but, through the actions of hizbulah- are trying to usurp the role of the central "protectors' dream of all the Arab countries, the Palestinian cause.
 The United Arabia has turned against Hezbollah due to the fact that the Saudi royal family derives its legitimacy from a strict form of Sunni Islam and certainly the loyalty of its population Shia.
 Ironically, the United States, traditional protector of Saudi Arabia, who has made possible the strengthening of the Shiites, to overturn Saddam Hussein and bringing the Shia parties in power in Iraq.
 The Bush administration seems recognise what has happened; as the growing Arco Shia Muslim in the east of the Arab world, the US is trying to strengthen its protection del Arco (Sunni Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia) in the west of the region.
 Israel otrora implacable enemy, the cause of the Arab, now seems to have been integrated into the defensive structure.
 However, a defensive position with these characteristics is bound to be unstable, due to the panárabes feelings.
 Today, the ordinary citizens Saudis are events in Gaza and the southern Lebanon through Al Jazeera satellite TV and other networks.
 Are being derrama blood Arab (not Shia), and that only hizbolah responds to the attacks.
 In their eyes, hizbolah has become a model of heroic resistance.
 This is making the Saudi state to deepen the rebel between Sunnis and Shia.
 After the official United against accusations of Hezbollah, the Saudi state called their clerics Wahhabi official to give fatwas condemning hazbolah as an organisation of cismáticos Shia and heretical.
 This type of convictions cannot do more than exacerbate divisions between Saudi Arabia and the region.
 As to deepen these antagonisms, how will the Sunnis regimes need to believe that their own Hezbollah in their corner of the world?
 If they come to this conclusion, do not have to look far militia, because these have already been trained... by Al-Qaeda.
 Georgia in the minds of Europe.
 The time when Europe could rely on us to make war, peace and build democracy in his own back yard ended.
 As demonstrated recently the Russian gas crisis, with the enlargement of the EU back yard now includes not only Ukraine but also to Georgia.
 In fact, like Ukraine, Georgia facing a test of its democracy that Europe cannot afford to ignore.
 Georgia was the first country to initiate a post-soviético "revolution 'of colours and to demonstrate, with dignity and maturity, the option of their people for democracy and values.
 The flags of the European Union since then have ondeado in all public buildings in Georgia are a sign of this accession and natural as old as the history of a country for which the ancient Greeks known was an integral part of the world.
 Prometeo, medea, the Amazon, and in neighbouring Armenia, Noah's ark... the Europe of our myths begins.
 With its history, culture and traditions (including its critical, independent and even rebel within the former Soviet Union), Georgia would be an ideal candidate for a successful democratisation.
 For this reason, it is much more worrying is that the zozobrando.
 All seemed to have started well enough.
 There was no resistance to the political reforms, privatisation, the anti-corruption measures, the search for new leaders not manchados with arrangements with the former regime, and the implementation of a common foreign pro-europea.
 Since then, however, has a mindset reappeared totalitarian leaders in which, on the pretext of represent the will of the majority, apropian of ever more power.
 As the spectre of the ancient Greeks in Georgia, the political elite seems not to end never die and revival.
 The same people and methods of government tried to defeat the rose revolution "" November 2003 have reappeared in the centre of power, through the use of their networks of relations, which extend beyond the limits of the country, as well as its wealth and its tremendous well afinadas skills of manipulation and wonder policy.
 All this has little in common with the essence of democracy, which is not merely box of vote, but in the separation of powers.
 The government interfering in the affairs of the European Parliament, which in turn is to monitor the details of the executive... in my case included the nomination of ambassadors and their routines daily!
 Finally, and what is even more serious, the judiciary is not independent, which undermines the rule of law and prevents both private investments that are needed.
 The democracy of Georgia exists in its head, but not yet in their bodies: the citizens still disparage the policy as a dirty business, abandon it to those who have retired should long ago.
 However, the hope of democracy is strongly rooted in the people, civic organisations and the media.
 Now is the time for Europe to ensure that this hope is not die out.
 America has done everything it can to support the political stability in Georgia, since its independence.
 There is no doubt that the Pact is not always amounted to democracy during Eduard Shevardnadze, the government of the former Minister of Foreign Affairs of the former Soviet Union which was removed from power during the rose revolution.
 However, the Americans invested heavily in support of the survival of the ideas and democratic leaders.
 Although the Foundation backed by the financista George Soros not manufactured the Rose Revolution, as the Russians say nationalist, certainly, nutrió stimulated and supported the preconditions of democracy.
 However, in order to help consolidate democracy, Georgia now needs the support of a different nature, that Europe is in a better position to offer.
 The models of balance of powers, the functioning of the judiciary and local democracy should inspire in forms of Europe closer to reality Georgian models of Anglo-Saxon American type.
 If Europe does not accept this challenge, traicionaría their fundamental duties in a small place (Mediterranean, flexible, with old historical traditions) where democracy has many more chance of success than in Ukraine, which is enormous and which still applies a Soviet mindset, not to mention the Central Asia.
 In fact, we do not support the nascent democracy of Georgia probably delay the democratic developments in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia even the same.
 Clearly, this is what is at stake.
 Although Russia has never renounced their dreams and instruments of imperial dominance, was resignando the inevitability of democracy, at least in their profit margins.
 But this reluctant acceptance of a certain normality in its relations with its neighbours has always been vulnerable to a sudden flare-up of the famosamente irrational derzhava ":" a Russian ethos aggressive which glorifies the Member States and its strength through the oppression of the weak.
 This is the key to understanding the recent gas crisis Russian.
 It is equally certain that any sign of decline in democracy in Georgia and other post-Soviet States will not only give impetus to the Russian neoimperiales ambitions.
 It is the responsibility of Europe to convince Russia that there is no hope of a return to the past.
 Europe must take on this role not only to guarantee the independence of its future energy supply, but also in order to demonstrate that the values of freedom, democracy and justice between peoples have a real force.
 To achieve this, it must be equipped with the necessary instruments: a great Europe disguised foundation to promote and support the political reforms, a university to train the future executives of the nascent democracies, a police force and a set of judges and magistrates to breathe life into the models that we wish to follow.
 Above all, Europe needs conviction.
 If Europe today cannot be persuaded that you have a vital interest in the future of its neighbours, who tomorrow you will believe in Europe?
